
1. Nature. 1980 Dec 25;288(5792):733-4.

Dimethyl sulphoxide reduces anti-receptor antibody titres in experimental
myasthenia gravis.

Pestronk A, Drachman DB.

The basic abnormality in myasthenia gravis (MG) is a reduction of acetylcholine
receptors (AChRs) at neuromuscular junctions, due to an autoimmune attack
directed against the receptors. Several lines of evidence support the idea that
humoral immune mechanisms play an important part in this process: anti-AChR
antibodies are present in the sera of more than 80% of myasthenic patients; the
pathogenicity of the antibodies has been demonstrated by passive transfer of IgG 
from myasthenic patients to mice which reproduces the typical features of MG in
the recipient animals; finally, procedures that reduce levels of anti-AChR
antibody, such as plasmapheresis, produce improvement in the clinical symptoms of
MG. Present treatments of MG depend largely on the prolonged use of
immunosuppressive drugs, which have significant drawbacks, for they usually
produce only a slow fall in antibody titres, and have toxic side effects. An
agent that could produce a rapid and sustained fall of autoantibody titre might
have wide application in the treatment of MG and other autoimmune diseases. In
the course of testing immunosuppressive drugs for their effect in treating
experimental autoimmune MG (EAMG), we discovered that the vehicle used to
dissolve some of these agents, dimethyl sulphoxide (DMSO), itself produced a
rapid and sustained fall of anti-AChR antibody titre. We now report similar
results for a controlled trial of DMSO treatment in rats with EAMG.


PMID: 7453805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Nature. 1980 Dec 25;288(5792):729-30.

Transient haem-globin interactions in photodeligated carboxyhaemoglobin and
subunits.

Lindqvist L, El Mohsni S, Tfibel F, Alpert B.

Although the fixation of ligand to haemoglobin (Hb) is known to be accompanied by
changes in protein conformation regulating the oxygen exchange in blood, the
mechanism triggering these changes remains undecided. We now report a dynamic
approach to this problem using results obtained in a nanosecond laser photolysis 
study of carboxyhaemoglobin (HbCO) and its isolated subunits. The study is based 
on our previous observation of a structural evolution of free Hb after
photodeligation, manifested through slight variations of the protein spectrum in 
the microsecond range. It is now found that the isolated subunits also show this 
behaviour. The duration of the spectral evolution is approximately 2 microseconds
for the three proteins and the activation energy of the process approximately 9
kcal mol-1. The spectral evolution is attributed to local conformation changes at
the haem region, occurring during the structural relaxation of the freshly
deliganded protein. The results for the isolated chains show that such changes
exist even in the absence of the R-T transition.


PMID: 7453804  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Nature. 1980 Dec 25;288(5792):718-20.

1,25-Dihydroxycholecalciferol stimulation of a mitochondrial protein in chick
intestinal cells.

Hobden AN, Harding M, Lawson DE.

The steroid hormone 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol (1,25-(OH)2D3) stimulates the
absorption of dietary calcium by the small intestine of animals although the
exact mechanism by which this is achieved remains unclear. However, it has long
been known that a soluble, calcium-binding protein (CaBP), is produced in large
amounts in the cytoplasm of the intestinal cells of animals after in vivo
administration of vitamin D3 or 1,25-(OH)2D3 (refs 1,2). We report here that
1,25-(OH)2D3 administered in vivo to rachitic chickens also stimulates production
of another protein with molecular weight (MW) 39,000-42,000 which is insoluble in
the absence of detergent, is found in the outer mitochondrial membrane and is
produced in advance of maximum calcium transport.


PMID: 7453803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Nature. 1980 Dec 25;288(5792):715-7.

Growth-modulating plasma tripeptide may function by facilitating copper uptake
into cells.

Pickart L, Freedman JH, Loker WJ, Peisach J, Perkins CM, Stenkamp RE, Weinstein
B.

The plasma tripeptide glycyl-L-lysine (GHL), when added at nanomolar
concentrations to a wide group of cultured systems, produces a disparate set of
responses ranging from the stimulation of growth and differentiation to outright 
toxicity. Such diverse actions imply that this tripeptide mediates some basic
biochemical function common to many types of cells and organisms. During the
isolation of GHL we found the compound to co-isolate through a number of steps
with approximately equimolar copper and about 1/5 molar iron. Maximal effects on 
hepatoma cells (HTC4) were seen when the peptide was added with copper and iron
to the growth medium. Structure-function studies revealed that several
tripeptides with a histidyl-lysyl linkage were nearly as active as GHL. The
association of GHL with copper and a homology similarity between the tripeptide
and the copper transport sites on albumin and alpha-fetoprotein, where the cupric
atom is bound to a histidyl residue adjacent to a basic residue, suggested that
GHL may act as a copper transport factor. We report here that the tripeptide
readily forms complexes with copper(II) and enhances the uptake of the metal into
cultured hepatoma cells.


PMID: 7453802  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Nature. 1980 Dec 25;288(5792):711-3.

No junctional communication between epithelial cells in hydra.

de Laat SW, Tertoolen LG, Grimmelikhuijzen CJ.

Diffusion gradients of morphogens have been inferred as a basis for the control
of morphogenesis in hydra, and morphogenetic substances have been found which, on
the basis of their molecular weight (MW), should be able to pass gap junctions.
There have been several reports of the presence of gap junctions between
epithelial cells of hydra. However, until now, there has been no report published
on whether these junctions enable the epithelial cells to exchange molecules of
small molecular weight, as has been described in other organisms. Therefore we
decided to investigate the communicative properties of the junctional membranes
by electrophysiological methods and by intracellular-dye iontophoresis. We report
here that no electrotonic coupling is detectable between epithelial cells of
Hydra attenuata in: (1) intact animals, (2) head-regenerating animals, (3) cell
re-aggregates, and (4) hydra that have become nervefree. Furthermore we show that
epithelial cells are unable to exchange low-molecular weight fluorescent dyes.


PMID: 7453801  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Nature. 1980 Dec 25;288(5792):675-9.

The structure of histone H1 and its location in chromatin.

Allan J, Hartman PG, Crane-Robinson C, Aviles FX.

On the basis of their primary structure, the lysine-rich histones are a unified
family of proteins. Each has an amino acid chain which falls into three distinct 
domains. Only the central domain (approximately 80 residues) is in a folded
conformation. It is protected from trypsin digestion in chromatin and corresponds
to the segment of highest sequence conservation. Without the flanking domains it 
is able to close two full turns of DNA in the nucleosome and can thus locate the 
H1 molecule.


PMID: 7453800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Nature. 1980 Dec 25;288(5792):727-9.

DNA cross-linking and monoadduct repair in nitrosourea-treated human tumour
cells.

Erickson LC, Laurent G, Sharkey NA, Kohn KW.

The 1-(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosoureas are potent anti-cancer drugs which produce
DNA inter-strand cross-links in a two-step reaction sequence. The first step was 
proposed to be an addition of a chloroethyl group to a guanine-O6 position of
DNA; the second step, which occurs over a period of several hours in the absence 
of free drug, could then form an interstrand cross-link by the slow reaction of
the bound chloroethyl group with a nucleophilic site on the opposite DNA strand. 
The delay between the formation of chloroethyl monoadducts and the formation of
inter-strand cross-links allows time for a DNA repair mechanism, capable of
removing the monoadducts, to prevent the cross-linking. We recently proposed this
mechanism to account for a difference in inter-strand cross-linking between a
normal and a transformed human cell strain. Day and his coworkers (see refs 7, 8 
and previous paper) found that some human tumour cell strains (designated Mer-
phenotype) are deficient in the ability to repair O6-methylguanine lesions in
DNA. We therefore hypothesized that the repair function that removes
O6-methylguanine residues from DNA would also remove chloroethyl monoadducts and 
hence prevent chloroethylnitrosourea-induced inter-strand cross-linking. We now
present evidence that supports this hypothesis and indicates also that the
O6-methylguanine repair confers resistance to cell killing by
chloroethylnitrosourea.


PMID: 7005689  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Nature. 1980 Dec 25;288(5792):702-5.

Reversible activation-inactivation of renin in human plasma.

Leckie BJ, McGhee NK.

Renin, an aspartate protease, cleaves the alpha-globulin angiotensinogen to
produce the decapeptide angiotensin I, which is then converted to the vasoactive 
hormone angiotensin II by the action of a peptidase 'converting enzyme'. An
inactive form of renin sometimes termed prorenin is present in normal human
plasma. Its enzymatic activity is increased by exposure to a pH of 3.0 or 3.3
followed by dialysis towards neutral pH. Only a small proportion of the inactive 
renin is activated during the acid stage of dialysis, most of the activation
apparently taking place during the subsequent dialysis to pH 5.7 (ref. 4) or 7.5 
(ref. 5). Furthermore, if inhibitors of serine proteases are added to the plasma,
the amount of inactive renin activated by this dialysis procedure is reduced.
These results suggest that acid-activation is mediated by serine proteases. The
role of enzymes such as plasma kallikrein, plasmin and renal kallikrein as
physiological activators of inactive renin has recently been discussed. In our
study of the activation of plasma inactive renin we have no found that, contrary 
to previous reports, complete activation of inactive renin takes place during the
acid stage of dialysis. This activation can be reversed if plasma is rapidly
adjusted to pH 7.4 and warmed. The next step in the acid-activation procedure,
that is, dialysis to neutral pH, renders the initial acid-activation
irreversible. These results were completely unexpected, and we offer an
explanation that reassesses the nature of inactive renin and the activation
process.


PMID: 7005688  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Nature. 1980 Dec 25;288(5792):669-74.

Crystal structure of yeast tRNAAsp.

Moras D, Comarmond MB, Fischer J, Weiss R, Thierry JC, Ebel JP, Giegé R.

Two independent, three-dimensional structures of yeast tRNAAsp, mainly differing 
by the conformation of the D loop, have been obtained from a multiple isomorphous
replacement (MIR) X-ray analysis at 3.5-A resolution. The folding of the
ribose-phosphate backbone is similar to that found for tRNAPhe; major differences
concern the relative positioning of the acceptor and anticodon stems, and the
conformation of the loops in the two molecules. Crystal packing involves
self-complementary GUC anticodon interactions.


PMID: 7005687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Nature. 1980 Dec 25;288(5792):705-6.

Ability of kallikrein to generate angiotensin II-like pressor substance and a
proposed 'kinin-tensin enzyme system'.

Arakawa K, Maruta H.

Pig pancreatic kallikrein liberates kallidin from kininogen, whereas trypsin
releases bradykinin. Recently, both kallikrein and trypsin have been reported to 
convert inactive plasma renin to active renin. However, we found that at pH 6.0, 
trypsin generated an angiotensin II-like pressor substance from human plasma
protein in the absence of converting enzyme. This has been isolated and found to 
have the same amino acid composition as angiotensin II. Thus, in vitro trypsin
can directly liberate both the depressor, bradykinin, in weak alkaline
conditions, and the pressor, angiotensin II, at weakly acidic pH, from the
appropriate substrates. We have now investigated whether kallikrein--a serine
protease like trypsin--also generates a pressor substance at weakly acidic pH.
Our results demonstrate that it does. We therefore suggest that kallikrein may be
involved in a direct link between the pressor and depressor systems and we
propose the term 'kinin-tensin system' for this sort of one-enzyme system capable
of generating both depressor and pressor substances.


PMID: 6905924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Nature. 1980 Dec 25;288(5792):730-3.

Human immunoglobulin variable region genes--DNA sequences of two V kappa genes
and a pseudogene.

Bentley DL, Rabbitts TH.

The study of immunoglobulin genes at the molecular level can allow us to
elucidate the origin of antibody diversity. Investigations of immunoglobulin gene
structure in the mouse have shown that light chains are encoded by three gene
segments: the C gene encoding the constant region and the V and J genes encoding 
the variable region. In antibody-producing cells the V and J genes join together 
to create a complete immunoglobulin gene. No data are available on the structure 
of human light chain variable region genes, but the variable regions of over 150 
human kappa light chain proteins have been sequenced and they comprise four
distinct subgroups. Here we report the complete DNA sequences of three human
kappa variable region (V kappa) genes isolated from fetal liver DNA. The
sequences demonstrate that two non-allelic genes encoding subgroup I proteins
have more than 90% nucleotide homology in both proteins coding and non-coding
regions. Comparison of these human genes with two complete DNA sequences of mouse
V kappa genes shows that V kappa gene structure is highly conserved between the
two species, which suggests that V kappa genes rearrange during the
differentiation of human lymphocytes by a very similar mechanism to that in the
mouse. The sequence of a defective V kappa gene is also described--this gene is
unable to code for a functional immunoglobulin due to substitutions, deletions
and insertions in its sequence. It is analogous to the pseudogenes of globin and 
Xenopus 5S RNA.


PMID: 6779204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Nature. 1980 Dec 25;288(5792):724-7.

Defective repair of alkylated DNA by human tumour and SV40-transformed human cell
strains.

Day RS 3rd, Ziolkowski CH, Scudiero DA, Meyer SA, Lubiniecki AS, Girardi AJ,
Galloway SM, Bynum GD.

We have identified a group of 8 (among 39) human tumour cell strains deficient in
the ability to support the growth of adenovirus 5 preparations treated with
N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG), but able to support the growth of
non-treated adenovirus normally. This deficient behaviour defines the Mer-
phenotype. Strains having the Mer- phenotype were found to arise from tumours
originating in four different organs. Relative to Mer+ strains, Mer- tumour
strains showed greater sensitivity to MNNG-produced killing, greater
MNNG-stimulated "DNA repair synthesis and a more rapid MNNG-produced decrease in 
semi-conservative DNA synthesis. Here we report that (1) Mer- strains are
deficient in removing O6-methylguanine (O6-MeG) from their DNA after [Me-14C]MMNG
treatment (Table 1); (2) Mer- tumour strains originate from tumours arising in
patients having Mer+ normal fibroblasts (Fig. 1a, b); (3) SV40 transformation of 
(Mer+) human fibroblasts often converts them to Mer- strains (Fig. 1c, d); (4)
MNNG produces more sister chromatid exchanges (SCEs) in Mer- than in Mer+ cell
strains (Fig. 2).


PMID: 6256643  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Nature. 1980 Dec 25;288(5792):722-4.

An embryo protein induced by SV40 virus transformation of mouse cells.

Mora PT, Chandrasekaran K, McFarland VW.

A specific protein of molecular weight (MW) approximately 55,000 (55K) was found 
recently by immunoprecipitation in all SV40 virus-transformed mammalian cells, in
addition to the SV40 large T antigen (appoximately 94K) and small antigen
(approximately 17K), which are the only proteins coded by the 'early half' of the
SV40 genome. The 55K protein is encoded by cellular DNA; its peptide pattern is
different from that of the SV40 antigens and it is species specific in mouse,
rat, hamster, monkey and human SV40-transformed (or infected) cells. A 55K
protein with a similar peptide pattern was found in mouse embryonal carcinoma
cells not exposed to SV40. Similar proteins were reported in mouse sarcomas and
leukaemias induced by a great variety of aetiological agents and also in a
spontaneously transformed mouse fibroblast cell line, and it has been suggested
that the protein may be a general correlated of cellular tumorigenicity. We now
report that the approximately 55K protein is present in primary cell cultures
from 12-14 day old mouse embryos, but not in 16-day old mouse embryos. The embryo
protein has a peptide pattern virtually indistinguishable from that of the
SV40-induced protein. We also show by comparing closely related cell families
that spontaneously transformed highly tumorigenic mouse cells do not possess the 
55K protein.


PMID: 6256642  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Nature. 1980 Dec 25;288(5792):720-2.

Role of src gene in growth regulation of Rous sarcoma virus-infected chicken
embryo fibroblasts.

Parry G, Bartholomew JC, Bissell MJ.

We report here a study of the mechanisms leading to loss of growth control in
chicken embryo fibroblasts transformed by Rous sarcoma virus (RSV). We have been 
particularly concerned with the role of the src gene in this process, and have
used RSV mutants temperature sensitive (ts) for transformation to investigate the
nature of the growth regulatory lesion. The two principal findings were (1) the
stationary phase of the cell cycle (G1) in chick embryo fibroblasts seems to have
two distinct regulatory compartments (using the terminology of Brooks et al. we
refer to these as 'Q' and 'A' states). When rendered stationary at 41.5 degrees C
by serum deprivation, normal cells enter a Q state, but cells infected with the
ts-mutant occupy an A state. (2) Whereas normal cells can occupy either state
depending on culture conditions, the ts-infected cells, at 41.5 degrees C, do not
seem to enter Q even though a known src gene product, a kinase, is reported to be
inactive at this temperature. We discuss the possibility that viral factors other
than the active src protein kinase influence growth control in infected cultures.


PMID: 6256641  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Nature. 1980 Dec 25;288(5792):717-8.

Identification of the BAL-labile factor.

Slater EC, de Vries S.

One of us has previously reported that treatment of the Keilin and Hartree
heart-muscle preparation with 2,3-dimercaptopropanol (BAL), in the presence of
air, leads to the complete inactivation of the succinate oxidase system with
little if any effect on the activities of succinate dehydrogenase (until more
than half the BAL was oxidized) or cytochrome c oxidase. The inactivation of the 
complete succinate oxidase system requires the oxidation of BAL by air in the
presence of the enzyme. It is not caused by H2O2 or BAL disulphides produced
during the oxidation of BAL. Spectroscopic studies identified the block as lying 
between cytochromes b and c. It was suggested that a BAL-labile factor is present
which transfers electrons from cytochrome b to cytochrome c and which is
destroyed by coupled oxidation with BAL. The factor is also required for NADH
oxidation. Subsequent work showed it is not identical with cytochrome c1 (ref.
4), myoglobin present in the preparation or the antimycin-binding site. We report
here that this factor is identical to the iron-sulphur protein in the central
portion of the respiratory chain first identified by Rieske.


PMID: 6256640  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Nature. 1980 Dec 25;288(5792):713-5.

Receptor binding and internalization of immobilized transcobalamin II by mouse
leukaemia cells.

Takahashi K, Tavassoli M, Jacobsen DW.

Membrane transport of vitamin B12 (cyanocobalamin; Cbl) into mammalian cells is
mediated by the serum protein transcobalamin II (TCII). In mouse leukaemia L1210 
cells, TCII-Cbl binds to membrane receptors in a rapid, temperature-independent
step and is internalized by a slow, temperature-dependent process. To delineate
the location of receptors on these cells, we have constructed a visual probe by
covalently coupling purified TCII-Cbl to submicrometre latex particles
(minibeads). We report here that when L1210 cells are incubated with minibeads
containing TCII-Cbl at 4 degrees C and examined by scanning electron microscopy
(SEM), the particles are found attached predominantly to microvilli. Incubation
of the cells at 37 degrees C results in the internalization of the minibeads. As 
visualized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM), this endocytotic process
seems to occur in clathrin-coated pits and vesicles at the cell surface.


PMID: 6256639  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Nature. 1980 Dec 25;288(5792):709-11.

Differential regulation of the alpha 2-adrenergic receptor by Na+ and guanine
nucleotides.

Michel T, Hoffman BB, Lefkowitz RJ.

Many hormones interact with receptors which stimulate the enzyme adenylate
cyclase. Less well characterized ar those receptors which mediate an inhibition
of adenylate cyclase activity. However, guanine nucleotides are clearly important
in the regulation of both stimulatory and inhibitory receptors. Monovalent
cations, notably Na+, regulate many inhibitory receptor systems but apparently
not stimulatory receptors. We investigate here the effects of Na+ and guanine
nucleotides on the adenylate cyclase-coupled inhibitory alpha 2-adrenergic
receptor of the rabbit platelet. Computer modelling of adrenaline competition
curves with 3H-dihydroergocryptine (3H-DHE) indicates that adrenaline induces two
distinct affinity states of the alpha 2 receptor--one of higher (alpha 2H) and
the other of lower (alpha 2L) affinity. Guanyl-5'-yl-imidodiphosphate (Gpp(NH)p) 
seems to reduce adrenaline affinity to converting the high-affinity state into
the low-affinity form of the receptor. In contrast, Na+ reduces adrenaline
affinity at both the high- and low-affinity states of the alpha 2 receptor while 
preserving receptor heterogeneity. Thus, guanine nucleotides and Na+ differ in
the manner by which each reduces agonist affinity for the alpha 2-adrenergic
receptor.


PMID: 6256638  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Nature. 1980 Dec 25;288(5792):665-9.

Moloney murine sarcoma proviral DNA is a transcriptional unit.

Benz EW Jr, Wydro RM, Nadal-Ginard B, Dina D.

A portion of Moloney murine sarcoma virus DNA which is repeated at both ends of
the provirus has been sequences. The nucleotide sequence, together with
hybridization data obtained with in vitro pulse-labelled nascent viral RNA,
indicate that initiation and termination of RNA synthesis occur within that
region of the proviral DNA. A model for transcriptional readthrough of
termination signals during RNA synthesis in this system is suggested.


PMID: 6256637  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):624-6.

A variant surface glycoprotein of Trypanosoma brucei synthesized with a
C-terminal hydrophobic 'tail' absent from purified glycoprotein.

Boothroyd JC, Cross GA, Hoeijmakers JH, Borst P.

Sequential expression of variant surface glycoproteins (VSGs) enables the
parasitic protozoan Trypanosoma brucei to evade the immune response of its
mammalian hosts. Studies of several VSGs, which have been isolated as soluble
molecules following disruption of cells in the absence of detergent, have
indicated extensive amino acid diversity and the absence of a hydrophobic segment
which might serve to anchor the carboxy terminus to the membrane. The
carboxy-terminal tryptic peptides of six VSGs have recently been characterized
and shown to be glycosylated. Three of these VSGs terminated with a glycosylated 
aspartate or asparagine residue (Asx), suggesting that the VSG was cleaved
following synthesis and glycosylation and before characterization. We present
here nucleotide sequence data which suggest that the primary translation product 
of one VSG gene contains a hydrophobic tail at the carboxy terminus which is not 
found on the isolated, mature glycoprotein. The data also predict that the
glycosylated residue is aspartic acid rather than the anticipated asparagine.


PMID: 7442811  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):622-4.

Solid-like behaviour of unsheared sickle haemoglobin gels and the effects of
shear.

Briehl RW.

Pathogenesis in sickle cell disease depends on the polymerization of
deoxyhaemoglobin S into long fibres followed by 'gel' formation. The 'gelation'
renders the affected erythrocytes less deformable than normal so that they
obstruct the microvasculature and the 'gelation' process has been one of the
targets for the development of therapeutic treatments of sickle cell disease.
'Gelation', however, acts through the rheological properties it induces and
rheological abnormalities are therefore the immediate bases of pathogenesis.
Although there has been very little study of the rheology of haemoglobin S
haemolysates, the 'gels' are generally considered to be highly viscous and
thixotropic on the basis of gross observation. Limited and generally qualitative 
observations show that high viscosity depends on deoxygenation and exhibits
hysteresis in gelling/ungelling cycles; also that shearing accelerates gelation
and can induce formation of fibre aggregates and crystals in suspension which, in
contrast to the 'gel', are fluid. Using transient and steady state methods it is 
shown here that unsheared sickle deoxyhaemoglobin preparations are solid-like,
consistent with a gel-like nature, whereas shearing converts them to thixotropic 
viscous systems. These results underline the marked variation and thixotropy the 
system can undergo and may be relevant to the pathogenesis, clinical course and
therapy of sickle cell disease.


PMID: 7442810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):620-2.

The higher order structure of chicken erythrocyte chromosomes in vivo.

Langmore JP, Schutt C.

Recently eukaryotic chromosomes have been shown to consist of a repeating
subunit, called the nucleosome. Although electron microscopy, neutron scattering 
and X-ray diffraction have been used to determine the low resolution structure of
the nucleosome, these techniques have yielded little information about the
disposition of nucleosomes within chromosomes. Electron microscopy has produced
many models for chromosome structure based on uniform fibres of 150-500A diameter
or on globular 'superbeads. Unfortunately the models are based on microscope
images that fail to reveal the strong structural periodicities shown by X-ray
scattering to be characteristic of isolated chromatin in solution. Moreover it
has not been demonstrated that the chromosomes of living cells are composed of
such fibres. We have used low-angle X-ray scattering to investigate the
organization of chromosomes in vivo and to account for the previously observed
inconsistencies in many X-ray and electron microscope observations. We report
here that chicken erythrocytes have a 400 A periodicity due to a nuclear
structure that is directly related to the 300 A side-by-side packing of
chromosome fibres revealed by electron microscopy of embedded cells, and that
this periodicity can be preserved in isolated nuclei provided that the proper
buffers are used.


PMID: 7442809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):618-9.

Post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression in guinea pig tissues.

Craig RK, Bathurst IC, Herries DG.

The formation of individual functional mRNA sequences in higher organisms
requires many steps in addition to transcription. These include RNA splicing,
polyadenylation, base modification, transport from nucleus to cytoplasm and
assembly into polyribosomes. Various control mechanisms must also operate. These 
will function on a quantitative basis to account for the differing frequency of
the various classes of cytoplasmic mRNAs, and also on a qualitative basis,
because in higher organisms not all the nuclear poly(A)-containing RNA molecules 
are found in a cytoplasmic poly(A)-containing RNA population from the same
tissue. During our studies on the mechanisms controlling the accumulation of the 
poly(A)-containing RNA sequences which occur with high and moderately high
frequency in the cytoplasm of the lactating guinea pig mammary gland, it became
apparent that > 75% of the 20,000 or so poly(A)-containing nuclear RNA sequences 
were not found in the cytoplasmic poly(A)-containing RNA fraction. Here we
demonstrate that many of the poly(A)-containing RNA sequences retained in the
nucleus of the lactating guinea pig mammary gland are also present in the nucleus
and cytoplasm of the liver of the male guinea pig. These observations provide new
evidence for a predominant role of post-transcriptional mechanisms in the
regulation of structural gene expression in guinea pig tissue.


PMID: 7442808  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):613-5.

Selective processing of beta-endorphin in regions of porcine pituitary.

Smyth DG, Zakarian S.

The prohormone of beta-endorphin is unusual in that it is the precursor of more
than one biologically active peptide (Fig. 1). The activation of this prohormone,
to produce corticotropin (ACTH), alpha-melanotropin (alpha-MSH) and
beta-endorphin, would seem to be relatively complex as its processing pattern is 
known to differ between tissues. Thus ACTH is produced in the anterior pituitary 
whereas alpha-MSH is formed in the pars intermedia; similarly, lipotropin and
beta-endorphin seem to predominate in the anterior pituitary whereas
beta-endorphin alone has been thought to be the principal component in the pars
intermedia. We report here a study of the distribution of beta-endorphin-related 
peptides in various regions of porcine pituitary. The main products in the
anterior pituitary were lipotropin and the potent analgesic form of
beta-endorphin, whereas the main products in the pars intermedia were the
inactive lipotropin C'-fragment and its N-acetyl derivative. Thus the processing 
of the C-terminal region of the beta-endorphin prohormone differs markedly
between the two regions of porcine pituitary.


PMID: 7442807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):607-8.

Effects of an earth-strength magnetic field on electrical activity of pineal
cells.

Semm P, Schneider T, Vollrath L.

Although magnetic fields can influence biological systems, including those of man
and other vertebrates, no central nervous structure has been identified that
might be involved in their detection. From a theoretical point of view, the
pineal organ might be such a structure for the following reasons: (1) It is
involved in the regulation of circadian rhythms and is thus essential for
migratory restlessness ('Zugunruhe'). Orientation at that time can be altered by 
an artificial magnetic field (MF) with a direction differing by 90 degrees from
that of the Earth. Circadian rhythms can be inhibited from phase shifting by
compensation of the Earth's MF and can be influenced by an artificial MF. (2) The
pineal organ is strongly dependent on its sympathetic innervation and the
sympatho-adrenergic system as a whole is sensitive to magnetic stimuli. (3) The
pineal organ is a light-sensitive time-keeping organ and could form part of a
combined compass--solar-clock system, which has been postulated for maintaining
orientation in birds. We have therefore investigated the effect of a MF on
electrophysiological activity of the guinea pig pineal organ, which is a useful
system for such studies on individual cells. We report here that activity was
depressed by an induced MF and restored when the MF was inverted.


PMID: 7442806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):604-6.

Cell cycle kinetics in human lymphocyte cultures.

Morimoto K, Wolff S.

Short-term cultures of phytohaemagglutinin (PHA)-stimulated human lymphocytes are
widely used to detect chromosome-damaging agents, possible human exposure to
mutagenic carcinogens and the immune response of blood. Because the results are
affected by the number of cell divisions before sampling, an accurate knowledge
of lymphocyte proliferation in culture is essential for these studies.
Unfortunately, the information available on the lymphocyte proliferative
characteristics is quite conflicting. For instance, although after stimulation of
blood lymphocytes with PHA the cultures soon contain cells that have divided
different numbers of times: this heterogeneity has been explained variously as a 
difference in cell-cycle times or in the times when the cells start blastogenesis
by responding to PHA. Prolonged treatment with high concentrations of
3H-thymidine (TdR) have often been used to investigate lymphocyte proliferation. 
Incorporated 3H-TdR can, however, affect cell kinetics. The differential staining
of sister chromatids in cells dividing for different numbers of times in the
presence of bromodeoxyuridine (BUdR) can be used to study cell kinetics. In
experiments combining sister chromatid differential staining and autoradiography,
we show here that 3H-TdR labelling at more than 0.1 microCi ml-1 slows lymphocyte
cycling, and that the heterogeneity of different generations of cells is caused
by a difference in the times when they start their first DNA synthesis in
response to PHA.


PMID: 7442805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):602-4.

Targeting to cells of fluorescent liposomes covalently coupled with monoclonal
antibody or protein A.

Leserman LD, Barbet J, Kourilsky F, Weinstein JN.

Many applications envisioned for liposomes in cell biology and chemotherapy
require their direction to specific cellular targets. The ability to use antibody
as a means of conferring specificity to liposomes would markedly increase their
usefulness. We report here a method for covalently coupling soluble proteins,
including monoclonal antibody and Staphylococcus aureus protein A (ref. 4), to
small sonicated liposomes, by using the heterobifunctional cross-linking reagent 
N-hydroxysuccinimidyl 3-(2-pyridyldithio)propionate (SPDP, Pharmacia). Liposomes 
bearing covalently coupled mouse monoclonal antibody against human beta
2-microglobulin [antibody B1.1G6 (IgG2a, kappa) (B. Malissen et al., in
preparation)] bound specifically to human, but not to mouse cells. Liposomes
bearing protein A became bound to human cells previously incubated with the
B1.1G6 antibody, but not to cells incubated without antibody. The coupling method
results in efficient binding of protein to the liposomes without aggregation and 
without denaturation of the coupled ligand; at least 60% of liposomes bound
functional protein. Further, liposomes did not leak encapsulated
carboxyfluorescein (CF) as a consequence of the reaction.


PMID: 7442804  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):591-2.

Thyroid hormone modulation of X ray-induced in vitro neoplastic transformation.

Guernsey DL, Ong A, Borek C.

The direct oncogenic potential of X rays has been demonstrated by the in vitro
neoplastic transformation of mammalian cells in culture, a technique which
permits the study of oncogenesis in the absence of host-specific effects.
Although several agents are known to modulate in vitro neoplastic transformation 
by X rays, little is known of the effects of hormones. We now describe
experiments which show that the presence of thyroid hormone is necessary for in
vitro neoplastic transformation by X rays in cells of an established mouse
fibroblast culture (C3H/10T1/2) and in early-passage diploid hamster embryo
cells.


PMID: 7442803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):589-90.

Potent carcinogenicity of nitrosodiethanolamine in rats.

Lijinsky W, Reuber MD, Manning WB.

Nitrosodiethanolamine is found in synthetic cutting oils and in many cosmetic
preparations and is probably the N-nitroso compound to which human exposure is
greatest. It is formed by reaction of the commonly used amines diethanolamine and
triethanolamine with nitrosating agents. An assessment of the possible risk in
human exposure to nitrosodiethanolamine must be based on sound chronic toxicity
data. A previously published chronic test of this compound in rats has shown it
to induce liver tumours after very high oral doses, and tumours of the nasal
cavity after administration of high repeated doses to Syrian hamsters by
subcutaneous injection. To improve our understanding of the carcinogenic potency 
of nitrosodiethanolamine, we undertook a more extensive study, in which the
compound was administered at concentrations ranging from 3,900 to 31,250 parts
per million (p.p.m.) in drinking water, to groups of rats for about 6 months. We 
report here that when the animals were killed, all bore hepatocellular
carcinomas, many of which metastasized at the higher doses, indicating that
nitrosodiethanolamine is a carcinogen of considerable potency in the rat.
However, it is inactive or very weakly active in short-term tests, such as the
Salmonella mutagenesis test developed by Ames.


PMID: 7442802  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):583-5.

Delayed formation of proteoglycan aggregate structures in human articular
cartilage disease states.

Oegema TR Jr.

Proteoglycans are major components of many extracellular matrices. In cartilage, 
they provide reversible resistance to compression and exist as molecules with
molecular weights (MWs) of 1-3 x 10(6). There is a central protein core of MWs
approximately 2 x 10(5) (refs 1, 2) with specialized subregions, one containing
mainly the chondroitin sulphate chains, another most of the keratan sulphate
chains, and a third is a largely globular structure interacting specifically with
both hyaluronic acid and a link protein to form stable aggregate structures such 
as those identified in human articular cartilage. In embryonic and tissue culture
systems, proteoglycans are isolated as aggregate structures in as little as 5--10
min after synthesis (sulphation) with no nonaggregating precursor detected.
However, Heinegärd and Hascall have characterized the small proportion of
nonaggregating proteoglycan present in bovine nasal septum cartilage and found
that it contained more peptide than the aggregating proteoglycan. Work by Upholt 
et al. has suggested that the MW of unprocessed protein core, synthesized by a
wheat-germ translating system from chick sternal cartilage mRNA, is approximately
340,000, leaving open the possibility of intermediates. I report here the
presence, in some human cartilages, of a proteoglycan population that initially
will not aggregate with the hyaluronic acid but subsequently can be chased into
aggregate.


PMID: 7442801  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):580-3.

Correlative genetic variation in natural populations of cats, mice and men.

O'Brien SJ, Gail MH, Levin DL.

The study of the extent and basis of gene-enzyme variation has long been a
principal concern of population genetics. Numerous surveys have indicated
considerable amounts of genetic variation detectable in natural populations, with
few exceptions. The variances of average heterozygosities (H) between species and
among populations within species are large, prompting Lewontin to emphasize the
importance of large gene sample sizes and Selander to encourage analysis of
variation of homologous gene-enzyme systems when making species comparisons. We
present here a comparative genetic analysis of electrophoretic variation at 57
homologous biochemical loci of cats, mice and men. The distribution of
polymorphism among the sampled loci in the three species was nonrandom. A large
group of sampled loci (60%) were monomorphic in all three species, whereas a
second group (30%) of the loci were polymorphic in two or more species. This
conservation of the tolerance of genetic polymorphism is apparently more a
characteristic of a particular locus than of the vertebrate species or of the
genome. The current hypotheses for classifying polymorphic and monomorphic loci
in terms of physiological and physical enzyme characteristics have been
re-examined.


PMID: 7442800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):585-7.

Use of aequorin to study excitation--contraction coupling in mammalian smooth
muscle.

Neering IR, Morgan KG.

Considerable information is available for intact skeletal and cardiac muscle
cells on the role of changes in intracellular Ca2+ (Cai2+) levels during
excitation-contraction coupling. Cai2+ levels seem to be similarly important in
smooth muscle. However, only two published reports describe the use of indicators
to directly measure [Cai2+] in intact smooth muscle cells. One described the use 
of murexide in molluscan smooth muscle, the other the use of aequorin in single
amphibian cells. Their results differed: very long calcium transients were
described for the molluscan muscle, compared with very brief ones for the
amphibian cells. We present here the first description of the relationship
between calcium transients and contraction of whole, mammalian smooth muscle
injected with aequorin. The Ca2+ transient we observed has a slow rise, a long
duration, and there was no delay between the peak of the Ca2+ transient and the
onset of force. This contrasts with the amphibian findings but resembles the
molluscan data. We observed a delay between the onset of the increase in [Cai2+] 
and the onset of the rise in tension which might be explained, at least in part, 
by the presence of a threshold [Cai2+] for concentration.


PMID: 7192366  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):600-2.

Platelet-dependent stimulation of prostacyclin synthesis by platelet-derived
growth factor.

Coughlin SR, Moskowitz MA, Zetter BR, Antoniades HN, Levine L.

Prostacyclin (PGI2), an unstable metabolite of arachidonic acid synthesized by
vascular endothelial and smooth muscle cells, is a potent vasodilator and
endogenous inhibitor of platelet aggregation. Regulation of PGI synthesis by the 
vessel wall is not well understood. We have investigated the possibility that a
product released from platelet granules during degranulation might modify vessel 
wall PGI2 biosynthesis. We report here that a non-dialysable, platelet-dependent 
factor in serum dramatically stimulates PGI2 synthesis by cultured bovine aortic 
endothelium aortic smooth muscle, and adrenal capillary endothelium.
Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), a releasable peptide contained within
platelet alpha granules, stimulates PGI2 synthesis by the above cell types as
much as 100-fold. The concentrations of PDGF required to produce these effects
are below the level reported in normal human serum. We postulate that in vivo
released PDGF may increase vessel wall PGI2 production as part of a negative
feedback mechanism controlling platelet aggregation.


PMID: 7003399  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):597-600.

Prostaglandin modulation of development of cell-mediated immunity in culture.

Leung KH, Mihich E.

Prostaglandins (PGs) have been implicated as possible modulators of the immune
response and various inflammatory processes. Various cell components of the
immune system are sources of PGs, and mitogen or antigen stimulation of human or 
murine lymphocytes leads to their enhanced release. They are also released from
various human and animal tumours. Thus, as cells of the immune system are both
sensitive to and sources of PGs, these factors may be important as physiological 
immune regulators. For example, PGs of the E series are capable of inhibiting
many effector functions. They have also been shown to inhibit the development of 
the humoral response. Although they inhibit the proliferative response to
mitogens, little is known about their effects on the development of the
cell-mediated immune response to antigens. The data summarized here implicate
PGs, thromboxane A2 (TXA2) and prostacyclin (PGI2) in the regulation of cellular 
immune responses at the inductive phase. Some of these data have been reported in
abstract form.


PMID: 7003398  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):592-4.

Friend leukaemia virus-transformed cells, unlike normal stem cells, form spleen
colonies in Sl/sld mice.

Mager D, Mak TW, Bernstein A.

Neoplastic cells are characterized by partial or total autonomy from the
interactions that regulate the behaviour of normal cells in the intact animal.
Despite the role of the host cellular environment in governing the proliferation 
and differentiation of both normal and malignant cells, little is known about
these host factors. The characterization of host genes that influence both normal
cellular processes, as well as susceptibility to tumour induction, is one
approach to identifying such factors. Mice carrying two recessive mutations at
the steel (Sl) locus have an environmental defect that affects both normal
haematopoietic stem cell function as well as susceptibility to Friend leukaemia
virus. In this study, we have used Sl/sld mice to examine whether malignant
transformation by this RNA tumour virus results in a population of cells capable 
of proliferating even in the defective cellular microenvironment of Sl/sld mice. 
We report here that late after infection, the leukaemic spleens of Friend
virus-infected mice contain cells which, unlike normal haematopoietic stem cells,
are able to form macroscopic spleen colonies in irradiated mice of genotype
Sl/Sld. This observation forms the basis for the first in vivo colony assay for
leukaemic cells transformed by Friend virus.


PMID: 6934375  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):615-8.

Expression of H-2, laminin and SV40 T and TASA on differentiation of transformed 
murine teratocarcinoma cells.

Knowles BB, Pan S, Solter D, Linnenbach A, Croce C, Huebner K.

Murine embryonal carcinoma cells (ECCs) do not express antigens of the major
histocompatibility complex (H-2), but do express cell-surface molecules shared
with early embryos. ECCs are also characterized by their insusceptibility to
infection by various oncogenic viruses, and their ability to differentiate into a
variety of adult cell types. Differentiation of ECCs in vitro can occur
spontaneously or can be induced. On exposure to retinoic acid the ECC line F9
(ref. 13) differentiates into cells which have the characteristics of parietal
endoderm. When ECCs are exposed to simian virus 40 (SV40), the SV40 tumour (T)
antigen is not expressed, although the virus genome reaches the nucleus, and a
primary transcript of the SV40 A gene is made. However, following exposure to
retinoic acid, the differentiated cells, like most mouse somatic cells, are
susceptible to SV40 abortive infection and synthesize large T and small t
antigens. To monitor the molecular events associated with the expression of the
SV40 A gene on differentiation, we have constructed an ECC line (F9 12-1)
containing a single integrated copy of the SV40 genome. This was accomplished by 
introducing a recombinant plasmid consisting of pBR322 linked to the herpes
simplex type 1 thymidine kinase gene and SV40 genome into a thymidine
kinase-deficient F9 cell line. We report here that in F9 12-1 cells exposed to
retinoic acid, synthesis of the SV40 A gene product(s), T and tumour-associated
specific antigens (TASA), parallels the appearance of the normal hallmarks of
differentiation in this cell line, H-2 antigens and the basement membrane protein
laminin.


PMID: 6255342  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):610-3.

Most of the coding region of rat ACTH beta--LPH precursor gene lacks intervening 
sequences.

Drouin J, Goodman HM.

The peptide hormones ACTH, beta-endorphin, alpha- and beta-melanotropin(MSH) and 
possibly gamma-MSH are synthesized in the pituitary gland by the processing of a 
32,000-molecular weight (MW) polypeptide called proopiomelanocortin (POMC). The
existence of a further precursor (pre form) to POMC containing an additional
N-terminal 'leader' peptide has been suggested by analysis of the in vitro
translation products of poly(A)-containing RNA from AtT-20 cells, a mouse
ACTH-producing cell line of pituitary origin. Nakanishi et al. cloned and
sequenced a cDNA copy of the bovine prePOMC mRNA. This sequence confirmed the
known structure of the carboxyl half of POMC and revealed the presence of a new
MSH-like moiety, gamma-MSH, within the 16,000-MW amino half of the precursor (16K
fragment). Recent experiments have suggested that this peptide may act in synergy
with ACTH to increase corticosterone and aldosterone production in vivo and in
vitro. We have now isolated from a rat genomic DNA library a segment of a DNA
encoding most of POMC, using as probe a mouse 144-base pair cloned cDNA fragment 
encoding beta-MSH and beta-endorphin. The cloned rat gene is one of two (or more)
closely related POMC genes. The DNA sequence obtained shows that the cloned POMC 
gene is not interrupted by any intervening sequence (IVS) between the codon for
amino acid 19 and the presumptive poly(A) addition site. This region of POMC
encodes all the biologically active peptides mentioned above. The DNA sequence
encoding the putative gamma-MSH and the coding sequence that precedes it are
highly conserved between rat and cow. This may indicate an as yet unrecognized
biological function(s) for the NH2-terminal portion of the 16K fragment.


PMID: 6255341  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):609-10.

beta-Carboline-3-carboxylic acid ethyl ester antagonizes diazepam activity.

Tenen SS, Hirsch JD.

Analogous to the progression of events in the opiate receptor-enkaphalin area,
the first reports that benzodiazepines have selective and specific high-affinity 
binding sites in brain have stimulated a search for the endogenous 'ligand' or
substance that might normally act at these sites. Braestrup and co-workers have
extracted from human urine a gamma-fraction (ref. 10) which they have recently
identified as beta-carboline-3-carboxylic acid ethyl ester (beta CEE). They
reported that this substance is extremely potent in displacing 3H-diazepam from
brain binding sites and proposed that a beta-carboline-3-carboxylic acid
derivative might, in part, be the endogenous ligand for the brain benzodiazepine 
receptor. We have examined several synthetically derived
beta-carboline-3-carboxylic acid analogues and now present data obtained from
testing only the beta CEE described by Braestrup et al. In addition to confirming
these workers' observation that this compound is a potent displacer of
3H-diazepam from brain tissue, our pharmacological data indicate that beta CEE
has activity that is opposite to, rather than similar to, that of diazepam.


PMID: 6255340  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):587-9.

External Na dependence of ouabain-sensitive ATP:ADP exchange initiated by
photolysis of intracellular caged-ATP in human red cell ghosts.

Kaplan JH, Hollis RJ.

Coupled active transport of Na+ and K+ across cellular plasma membranes is
mediated by (Na+ + K+)-stimulated Mg2+-dependent ATPase. Active cation transport 
by this Na pump involves a cyclic Na-dependent phosphorylation of the enzyme by
intracellular ATP and hydrolytic dephosphorylation of the phosphoenzyme,
stimulated by K+ (ref. 1). In human red blood cells, skeletal muscle and squid
axons, replacement of extracellular K by Na results in a ouabain-sensitive efflux
of Na coupled to an influx of extracellular Na. There is apparently no net Na
movement nor net hydrolysis of ATP. The rate of Na:Na exchange is stimulated by
increased levels of ADP and exchange transport is not observed in cells totally
depleted of intracellular ATP. These characteristics suggest that the biochemical
mechanism underlying the Na exchange mode of the Na pump involves phosphorylation
of the enzyme by ATP (which requires intracellular Na) followed by its
dephosphorylation by ADP. Such a reaction has been observed in partially purified
(Na+ + K+) ATPase from a variety of sources and its dependence on Na
concentration has been described (although not previously for the red cell
enzyme). In the present work, intracellular ATP:ADP exchange reaction was
initiated by photoreleased ATP following brief irradiation at 350 nm of ghosts
containing caged-ATP. The ouabain-sensitive component of the ensuing ATP:ADP
exchange reaction shows a biphasic response to extracellular Na. External Na in
the range 0--10 mM has an inhibitory effect whilst increasing concentrations
beyond this range stimulate the rate of exchange in a roughly linear fashion up
to 100 mM Na. These results represent the first direct demonstration of the
sidedness of the effects of Na on this partial sequence in the overall enzyme
cycle and bear a qualitative resemblance to the Na effects on the Na-ATPase which
occur in the absence of intracellular ADP in human red blood cells.


PMID: 6255339  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):561-6.

Recognition sequence of bacteriophage phi X174 gene A protein--an initiator of
DNA replication.

van Mansfeld AD, Langeveld SA, Baas PD, Jansz HS, van der Marel GA, Veeneman GH, 
van Boom JH.

Gene A protein, the initiator protein of bacteriophage phi X174 DNA replication, 
cleaves synthetic single-stranded oligodeoxyribonucleotides at the same site as
the corresponding sequence at the phi X origin. The results identify the
recognition sequence within the decamer CAACTTGATA which is cleaved next to the G
residue. Further requirements for cleavage of double-stranded DNA by the gene A
protein are supercoiling and an A + T-rich domain adjacent to the recognition
sequence.


PMID: 6255338  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):594-6.

Interferon suppresses antigen- and mitogen-induced leukocyte migration
inhibition.

Szigeti R, Masucci MG, Masucci G, Klein E, Klein G.

Although first recognized by its effect on virus-cell interactions, interferon
(IFN) has a variety of other effects. It can affect cell proliferation, modify
the immune response at several levels, enhance the cytotoxic action of
lymphocytes, suppress antibody formation and inhibit the development of
delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) reactions. Therefore we have now tested the
effect of interferon on leukocyte migration inhibition (LMI), regarded as the
counterpart in vitro of DTH in humans. We have found that IFN suppresses both
mitogen-and antigen-induced LMI, acting directly on the granulocytes but also
affecting the lymphokine production of the lymphocytes.


PMID: 6160404  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Nature. 1980 Dec 11;288(5791):551-6.

Angiogenesis in vitro.

Folkman J, Haudenschild C.

Cloned capillary endothelial cells, cultured in tumour-conditioned medium, form
capillary tubes. By light and electron microscopy these tubes resemble
capillaries in vivo. This first demonstration of angiogenesis in vitro: (1) shows
that all the information necessary to develop an entire capillary network in
vitro is expressed by one cell type; (2) suggests a mechanism for lumen
formation; and (3) offers a possibility of distinguishing between direct and
indirect angiogenesis factors.


PMID: 6160403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Nature. 1980 Dec 4;288(5790):497-9.

Defective synthesis of HbE is due to reduced levels of beta E mRNA.

Traeger J, Wood WG, Clegg JB, Weatherall DJ.

Haemoglobin E (alpha 2 beta 2(26)Glu leads to Lys) is one of the commonest
haemoglobin variants. There are an estimated 30 million carriers of the beta E
gene in South-East Asia, where they comprise more than 50% of the population in
some areas; however, the reasons for this high frequency have never been
adequately explained. Homozygotes for HbE may be midly anaemic, but they do not
have any clinical disability. However, individuals heterozygous for both beta E
and beta thalassaemia (HbE/beta thalassaemia) have a severe clinical disorder
which in some cases may approach that seen in homozygous beta thalassaemia and
which is by far the commonest form of symptomatic thalassaemia in the Indian
subcontinent and South-East Asia. Haemoglobin E is the only common structural
variant which interacts with beta thalassaemia to produce a severe disorder and
the underlying mechanism of the interaction is not known. We have studied several
homozygotes and heterozygotes for HbE and show here that the beta E chain is
inefficiently synthesized and produces the phenotype of a mild form of beta
thalassaemia; hence, when inherited together with beta thalassaemia it causes a
marked beta-chain deficit. Furthermore, the mechanism for the defective
production of beta E chains seems to be a reduction of beta E mRNA, a most
unexpected finding in a disorder caused by a single amino acid substitution and
presumably by a single nucleotide change in the DNA of the beta globin gene.


PMID: 7442796  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Nature. 1980 Dec 4;288(5790):483-4.

Adult tissues contain chemoattractants for vascular endothelial cells.

Glaser BM, D'Amore PA, Seppa H, Seppa S, Schiffmann E.

New blood vessel formation, or angiogenesis, occurs through the migration of
endothelial cells in elongated sprouts. These sprouts are directed preferentially
towards the inciting stimulus. Several studies have demonstrated that certain
chemical substances can stimulate angiogenesis. In these cases, endothelial cell 
migration towards the chemical stimulus may be due to a preferential migration of
cells from lower to higher concentrations of the mediator. Such concentration
gradient-dependent cellular migration has been termed chemotaxis. Using a
modification of the Boyden chamber technique to measure chemotaxis in vitro, we
have now found that extracts of various adult bovine tissues have potent
chemotactic activity for vascular endothelial cells. Adult bovine serum lacks
similar chemotactic activity.


PMID: 7442795  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Nature. 1980 Dec 4;288(5790):479-81.

Sensory maps in the claustrum of the cat.

Olson CR, Graybiel AM.

The claustrum is a telencephalic cell group (Fig. 1A, B) possessing widespread
reciprocal connections with the neocortex. In this regard, it bears a unique and 
striking resemblance to the thalamus. We have now examined the anatomical
ordering of pathways linking the claustrum with sensory areas of the cat
neocortex and, in parallel electrophysiological experiments, have studied the
functional organization of claustral sensory zones so identified. Our findings
indicate that there are discrete visual and somatosensory subdivisions in the
claustrum interconnected with the corresponding primary sensory areas of the
neocortex and that the respective zones contain orderly retinotopic and
somatotopic maps. A third claustral region receiving fibre projections from the
auditory cortex in or near area Ep was found to contain neurones responsive to
auditory stimulation. We conclude that loops connecting sensory areas of the
neocortex with satellite zones in the claustrum contribute to the early
processing of exteroceptive information by the forebrain.


PMID: 7442793  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Nature. 1980 Dec 4;288(5790):451-5.

Specific high affinity cell membrane receptors for biologically active phorbol
and ingenol esters.

Shoyab M, Todaro GJ.

A variety of normal and transformed avian and mammalian cells and tissues contain
high affinity specific receptors on their membranes which interact with
biologically active phorbol and ingenol esters in a reversible and saturable
manner. The binding of labelled phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu) to live or
glutaraldehyde-fixed cells is dose-, time- and temperature-dependent. Those
phorbol or ingenol esters which stimulate cell growth in culture and have
tumour-promoting activity in vivo inhibit the binding of labelled PDBu, while the
biologically inactive derivatives fail to do so. Other non-diterpene
tumour-promoting agents, epidermal growth factor (EGF), retinoids and
prostaglandins do not compete for the binding of labelled PDBu to its specific
membrane receptors.


PMID: 7442792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Nature. 1980 Dec 4;288(5790):499-501.

Amino acid sequence homology between cholera toxin and Escherichia coli
heat-labile toxin.

Dallas WS, Falkow S.

Cholera toxin (CT) and the Escherichia coli heat-labile toxin (LT) are
functionally, structurally and immunologically similar enterotoxins. Both toxins 
cause the elevation of cyclic AMP levels in gut epithelial cells by catalysing
the NAD-dependent ADP ribosylation of membrane proteins. Each toxin is composed
of two dissimilar subunits. The A subunit has an enzymatic activity and is the
adenylate cyclase-activating component of the enterotoxin. The B subunit
recognizes membrane components and binds the holotoxin to the target call
juxtaposing the A subunit with its substrates. Binding studies and competition
experiments indicate that the membrane receptors for cholera toxin B subunit
(CT-B) and LT-B are similar but not identical (these studies were performed
before by LT was purified to homogeneity). The monosialosylganglioside GMI has
been shown to be the receptor for the cholera toxin, and it probably composes
part of the receptor for LT. Gyles and Barnum, first reported that LT and cholera
toxin were immunologically related, and it has subsequently been shown that they 
share common antigenic determinants in both A and B subunits. The primary
structure of CT-B has been determined. We report here a comparison between the
amino acid sequences of LT-B and CT-B. The nucleotide sequence of the LT-B
cistron (eltB) was determined using a recombinant plasmid encoding LT.
Translation of this sequence revealed that LT-B and CT-B show significant amino
acid sequence homology. In addition, several features of the eltB cistron were
revealed by the sequence analysis.


PMID: 7003397  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Nature. 1980 Dec 4;288(5790):491-2.

Is myosin in the cochlea a basis for active motility?

Macartney JC, Comis SD, Pickles JO.

Recent evidence suggests that the stereocilia of cochlear hair cells contain
actin filaments. The experiments reported here demonstrate the presence of
myosin, suggesting that the mechanical properties of the hair cells may be
actively modifiable by actin-myosin interactions as in muscle cells.


PMID: 7003396  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Nature. 1980 Dec 4;288(5790):488-9.

Production of human hybridomas secreting antibodies to measles virus.

Croce CM, Linnenbach A, Hall W, Steplewski Z, Koprowski H.

Monoclonal antibodies against a variety of antigens can be produced using
techniques of somatic cell hybridization between cells of rodent myeloma lines
and B cells derived from animals immunized against a given antigen. However,
because of the monoclonal antibodies secreted by these hybridomas are of rodent
origin, their use in human immunotherapy is limited. Thus the production of
B-cell hybrids that secrete human monoclonal antibodies may be of considerable
value. We have hybridized a hypoxanthine phosphoribosyl transferase
(HPRT)-deficient human B-cell line derived from a patient suffering from multiple
myeloma with peripheral lymphocytes obtained from a patient with subacute
sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE). These hybridomas were found to secrete human
IgM specific for measles virus nucleocapsids.


PMID: 6969366  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Nature. 1980 Dec 4;288(5790):455-9.

An actin-binding protein from Acanthamoeba regulates actin filament
polymerization and interactions.

Isenberg G, Aebi U, Pollard TD.

A protein has been purified from Acanthamoeba which, like cytochalasin B, caps
the end of actin filaments normally favoured for monomer addition and inhibits
the interactions of actin filaments. In addition, this 'capping' protein
nucleates the polymerization of actin monomers and blocks the annealing of actin 
filament fragments.


PMID: 6893736  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Nature. 1980 Dec 4;288(5790):492-5.

Ca2+-activated ATPase and ATP-dependent calmodulin-stimulated Ca2+ transport in
islet cell plasma membrane.

Pershadsingh HA, McDaniel ML, Landt M, Bry CG, Lacy PE, McDonald JM.

Calcium is known to play an essential part in the regulation of insulin secretion
in the pancreatic beta cell. Calcium influx/efflux studies indicate that glucose 
promotes an accumulation of calcium by the beta cell. However, interpretation of 
such data is particularly difficult due to the complex compartmentalization of
calcium within the cell. Although indirect evidence using chlorotetracycline
suggests that control of calcium homeostasis at the plasma membrane may be
central to insulin secretion, the mechanism by which secretagogues influence the 
handling of calcium remains unknown. Despite its continuous diffusive entry,
intracellular calcium is maintained in the submicromolar range by
energy-dependent mechanisms. One such process which has been well characterized
in erythrocytes is a plasma membrane calcium extrusion pump whose enzymatic basis
is a high affinity (Ca+2 + Mg+2)ATPase. A similar mechanism regulated by insulin 
has recently been identified in adipocyte plasma membranes. We report here the
presence of a high affinity (Ca+2 + Mg+2)ATPase and ATP-dependent
calmodulin-stimulated calcium transport system in rat pancreatic islet cell
plasma membranes.


PMID: 6449671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Nature. 1980 Dec 4;288(5790):501-2.

Freezing induced change in ligand orientation in oxycobalt-myoglobin.

Hori H, Ikeda-Saito M, Yonetani T.

Single crystals of oxycobalt-myoglobin were examined by electron paramagnetic
resonance (EPR) spectroscopy at ambient and cryogenic temperatures. The principal
values and eigenvectors of the g-tensor and the hyperfine coupling tensor were
determined. The Co--O--O bond angle was estimated to be 125 degrees at ambient
temperature. The single crystal EPR dats of oxycobalt myoglobin at 77K showed two
sets of the principal values for g and hyperfine coupling tensors and
eigenvectors, indication that the bound oxygen molecule takes two distinct
orientations. The result has demonstrated for the first time that the well
defined change in the molecular orientation is induced upon freezing the
biological macromolecule.


PMID: 6255337  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Nature. 1980 Dec 4;288(5790):495-7.

Decamethonium and hexamethonium block K+ channels of sarcoplasmic reticulum.

Coronado R, Miller C.

The sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane (SR) of skeletal muscle contains
cation-selective channels which have been detected by isotope fluxes in
fragmented SR vesicles, fluorimetric dyes and direct incorporation of SR vesicles
to planar phospholipid bilayers. SR channels incorporated in bilayers have a
single open-state conductance of 140 pS in 0.1 MK+ (refs 4,5). We have previously
reported blockade of the SR channel by Cs+, a low-affinity blocker with a
zero-voltage dissociation constant of 40 mM (ref. 6). We showed that increasing
Cs+ concentrations reduced the open-channel conductance, increased the mean open 
time and conferred voltage dependence on the open-state conductance. Here we
report on the blockade induced by the cholinergic drugs decamethonium and
hexamethonium on the SR channel. Although blockade by hexamethonium is similar to
that of Cs+, decamethonium blocks with a much higher affinity and induces
flickering events which are probably due to the interaction of single drug
molecules with the open state.


PMID: 6255336  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Nature. 1980 Dec 4;288(5790):489-91.

Surface phenotypes in T-cell leukaemia are determined by oncogenic retroviruses.

Zielinski CC, Waksal SD, Tempelis LD, Khiroya RH, Schwartz RS.

Spontaneous thymic leukaemia in experimental mice is the result of a complex
series of genetically controlled events. An important step in this process
involves the production by thymocytes of recombinant polytropic retroviruses (MCF
viruses). These leukaemogenic agents arise by recombination of genes from the env
regions of endogenous precursor viruses. Sequences in these regions encode the
envelope glycoprotein gp70 (ref. 6). Thus far, each cloned isolate of recombinant
virus from AKR and HRS/J mice has been found to possess unique oligonucleotide
sequences in its env region, as well as clone-specific peptides in its gp70 (refs
7,8). Therefore, the polytropic viruses of these leukaemia-susceptible mice are
extremely diverse. These findings suggest that random recombination of env genes 
gives rise to leukaemogenic polytropic viruses. McGrath and Weissman have
proposed that thymocytes with cell surface receptors for the gp70 of a particular
leukaemogenic virus are the target cells for malignant transformation by that
specific virus. In view of the diversity of polytropic viral gp70, their
hypothesis would predict extensive phenotypic diversity among spontaneous thymic 
leukaemias. In contrast, leukaemias induced by a particular leukaemogenic
recombinant virus would always have the same phenotype. Here we verify these
predictions experimentally.


PMID: 6255335  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Nature. 1980 Dec 4;288(5790):486-7.

Monoclonal antibodies to lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus react with pathogenic
arenaviruses.

Buchmeier MJ, Lewicki HA, Tomori O, Johnson KM.

Certain arenaviruses have become widely recognized as important human pathogens, 
the most notable among these being Lassa virus, the causative agent of Lassa
fever. Two other members of the group, Junin and Machupo virus, are the
aetiological agents of Argentine and Bolivian haemorrhagic fevers, respectively. 
All these agents share both morphological features and to varying degrees
serological cross-reactivity with other non-pathogenic arenaviruses. Despite the 
evident clinical importance of these viruses, work to define their physiochemical
structure and to develop rapid and precise diagnostic techniques has been slow.
Consequently, the definitive relationships among West African Lassa strains,
strains of a related agent from Mozambique and of an Old World arenavirus,
lymphocytic choriomeningitis (LCM), have not been established. This problem is of
more than simple taxonomic importance in view of the fact that a Mozambique virus
strain produced subclinical infection in experimental monkeys which were then
resistant to challenge with monkey and human virulent Lassa virus from Sierra
Leone. We have explored the use of monoclonal hybridoma antibodies generated
against relatively less hazardous arenaviruses to define antigens cross-reactive 
with the important human pathogens of the group. Here we describe the use of
monoclonal antibodies directed against LCM, virus to define antigenic
specificities shared among LCM, Lassa and Mozambique viruses.


PMID: 6160402  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Nature. 1980 Dec 4;288(5790):484-6.

Leukotrienes are potent constrictors of human bronchi.

Dahlén SE, Hedqvist P, Hammarström S, Samuelsson B.

Slow reacting substance of anaphylaxis (SRS-A) is released by various stimuli,
including immunological challenge, and has long been considered an important
mediator of immediate hypersensitivity reactions, such as bronchoconstriction in 
allergic asthma. Recently, slow reacting substances from several tissues have
been identified and characterized as members of a newly discovered group of
substances, the leukotrienes. Leukotrienes are generated from arachidonic acid
and other polyunsaturated fatty acids in a pathway initially involving a
lipoxygenase-catalysed oxygenation at C-5 (Fig. 1). This differs from the
synthesis of prostaglandins and thromboxanes, where the initial transformation of
arachidonic acid is catalysed by a cyclo oxygenase (Fig. 1). Recently,
leukotriene C4(LTC4:5(S)-hydroxy,6(R)-S-glutathionyl-7,9-trans,
11,14-cis-eicosatetraenoic acid) and
D4(LTD4:5(S)-hydroxy,6(R)-S-cysteinyl-glycyl-7,9-trans,11,14-cis-eicosatetraenoic
acid) were found to have biological effects in several bioassay systems, which
are strikingly similar to those previously reported for impure extracts of SRS-A.
Here we report the remarkable contractile activity of both LTC4 and LTD4 on
isolated human bronchi, which further emphasizes the possibility that
leukotrienes are potent mediators of bronchoconstriction in man.


PMID: 6108512  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):414-6.

Neutron diffraction identifies His 57 as the catalytic base in trypsin.

Kossiakoff AA, Spencer SA.

The mechanism of action of trypsin and other serine proteases has been widely
debated, particularly with regard to the identification of the group at the
active site which functions as the chemical base during the catalytic process.
Attempts to resolve this question by a number of indirect techniques, including
NMR, isotope exchange, difference IR and quantum mechanical calculations, have
resulted in different identifications of this group. Neutron diffraction, because
of its ability to locate hydrogen atoms experimentally, offers the most direct
way of resolving this issue. Results are presented here from a 2.2-A neutron data
set for bovine trypsin covalently inhibited by a transition-state analogue, the
monoisopropylphosphoryl (MIP) group. His 57 is clearly identified as the base in 
the catalytic process.


PMID: 7432541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):410-3.

Direct observation of a transverse periodicity in collagen fibrils.

Squire JM, Freundlich A.

Collagen fibrils have been extensively studied by electron microscopy, but only
scant evidence has yet been obtained about their transverse structure. A
transverse pediodicity of about 40 or 80 A might be expected if the microfibril
model (until recently the common preference) is correct, but little direct
evidence for such a periodicity has been obtained so far. We have studied
electron micrographs of longitudinal cryosections of rat tail tendon. These
appear very fibrous when studied by eye, but they produce at best only diffuse
equatorial peaks in optical diffraction patterns. Nevertheless, we show here that
like other fibrous protein structures, they do possess a strong transverse
periodicity as revealed by their self-convolution functions (or auto-correlation 
functions). The observed periodicity is consistent with the presence of an 80 A
structural unit in collagen fibrils in vivo.


PMID: 7432540  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):408-10.

Chemical cross-linking restrictions on models for the molecular organization of
the collagen fibre.

Bailey AJ, Light ND, Atkins ED.

The nature of the precise packing of collagen molecules into a collagen fibril,
producing the characteristic regular banding, is still debatable. The problem has
been approached using electron microscopy and X-ray diffraction techniques, and
several models have been proposed, including hexagonal packing, an octafibril
structure, a two-strand rope and a five-strand rope (for review, see ref. 1). For
the past decade the pentafibrillar model, originally proposed by Smith, has been 
widely accepted as the fundamental building unit. This model, based on the
quarter-stagger end-overlap hypothesis of Hodge and Petruska, was supported by
the X-ray diffraction data of Miller and Wray. These X-ray data have now been
reinterpreted by Hulmes and Miller in terms of a quasi-hexagonal packing of
collagen molecules. We argue here that until other characteristic parameters are 
taken into account, in particular the chemical cross-linking evidence, the
packing problem is still unresolved.


PMID: 7432539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):407-8.

Comparison of benzo(a)pyrene metabolism and sister chromatid exchange induction
in mice.

Schreck RR, Latt SA.

Genetic differences in the inducible arylhydrocarbon hydroxylase (EC 1.14.14.2)
(AHH) system, which is involved in the multi-step metabolism of hydrocarbons, are
known to exist in both humans and mice. However, the predictive value of AHH
activity in human or murine tissues, assayed as benzo(a)pyrene hydroxylation, as 
an index of individual susceptibility to mutagens and carcinogens, remains
unclear because of apparent inconsistencies between results obtained from
different in vitro and in vivo systems. This situation may in part reflect the
complexity of the pathways involved in drug metabolism, which combine both
activation and detoxification. To determine the relationship of metabolic
potential to an easily quantified, short-term in vivo end point of genetic
damage, we compared the ability of AHH inducible and uninducible mice to
metabolize a procarcinogen, benzo(a)pyrene (BP), with the in vivo induction by BP
of sister chromatid exchanges (SCEs). SCE induction has been shown to correlate
with mutagenesis. We report here that although BP did cause an increase in SCEs
in test animals, the extent of this increase did not differ between the inducible
C57BL/6 mice and the uninducible DBA/2 mice. Moreover, prior exposure to an AHH
inducer, 3-methyl-cholanthrene (3-MC), did not increase the number of BP-induced 
SCEs in C57BL/6 mice. This lack of correlation between benzo(a)pyrene hydroxylase
(BP-OH) inducibility and SCE response reinforces the idea that other metabolic
steps, such as detoxification or DNA repair, may influence the overall genetic
impact of a drug.


PMID: 7432538  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):387-8.

Major anti-paternal alloantibody induced by murine pregnancy is
non-complement-fixing IgG1.

Bell SC, Billington WD.

Maternal humoral responses against antigens of the genetically alien embryo have 
been reported in several mammalian species, including man, although little is
known of the biological relevance of this phenomenon. In the mouse, only females 
of certain inbred strains mated repeatedly with an allogeneic male produce
antibody directed against paternally inherited fetal histocompatibility antigens,
as assessed by haemagglutination techniques. It has been suggested that this
characteristic of the female is associated with the H-2 haplotype, although some 
reports indicate that it also extends to other H-2 types. Potentially deleterious
complement-dependent cytotoxicity, albeit at low levels, has been claimed to be
associated with this alloantibody, but we have been unable to detect any such
activity in a large number of maternal sera. Four IgG isotypes (IgG1, IgG2a,
IgG2b and IgG3) have been identified and shown to occur in the serum of normal
animals. Despite their similar physicochemical properties, which complicate
purification procedures, the availability of immunoglobulin-secreting
plasmacytomas has made possible the preparation of isotype-specific antisera.
Using these antisera in modified haemadsorption assay, we have now demonstrated
that the major alloantibody response induced by murine pregnancy involves the
non-complement-fixing IgG1 subclass. This is a noncytotoxic antibody with
potentially protective (enhancing) properties.


PMID: 7432537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


61. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):376-8.

Cholecystokinin octapeptide in the rat hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system.

Beinfeld MC, Meyer DK, Brownstein MJ.

Gastrin-cholecystokinin (CCK)-like immunoreactivity has been visualized by
immunohistochemistry in the vasopressin-oxytocin neurosecretory system comprising
the posterior lobe of the pituitary, the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei of
the hypothalamus. This CCK-like substance has not been chemically identified in
the rat, but has been reported to be gastrin 17 in the swine pituitary. We report
here that this CCK-like immunoreactive substance co-chromatographs with CCK8
sulphate on Sephadex G-50 and two HPLC chromatographic systems. No gastrin 17 was
detected in rat pituitary or brain. We further report that about 60% of the CCK
in posterior lobe originates in cell bodies in the paraventricular nucleus of the
hypothalamus. The CCK content of posterior pituitary is dramatically decreased by
physiological perturbations which stimulate vasopressin or oxytocin release. We
propose that CCK may either be co-secreted with vasopressin and oxytocin to act
on peripheral targets or may be involved in the regulation of vasopressin or
oxytocin neurosecretion.


PMID: 7432536  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):370-3.

Effect of striatal cells on in vitro maturation of mesencephalic dopaminergic
neurones grown in serum-free conditions.

di Porzio U, Daguet MC, Glowinski J, Prochiantz A.

It is well documented that target cells can regulate the morphological and
biochemical development of peripheral afferent neurones, but little is known
about the existence of such regulatory mechanisms in the central nervous system. 
We therefore investigated previously the influence of striatal target cells on
the maturation in vitro of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurones, which survive in 
culture for more than 5 weeks, develop dense arborizations and both take up
3H-dopamine (DA) by a high-affinity specific process and synthesize 3H-DA from
3H-tyrosine. Furthermore, depolarization by potassium or veratridine stimulates
the release of DA through a calcium-dependent mechanism and tetrodotoxin prevents
the veratridine-evoked release of the transmitter. Both the number of 3H-DA
uptake sites and the capacity for 3H-DA synthesis were at least doubled when the 
neurones were cultured with target cells from the striatum. To determine whether 
glial cells which proliferate in serum-complemented medium are partly responsible
for the maturation of dopaminergic neurones and/or for the effect of striatal
cells, we have now repeated the experiment using serum-free medium in which
virtually pure neuronal populations can be obtained. The reduction in the number 
of glia did not affect either the maturation of dopaminergic cells alone, or the 
effect of striatal cells. Autoradiographic analysis of the number of dopaminergic
cells strongly suggests that the stimulatory effect is related to increased
capacities of 3H-DA uptake and synthesis per dopaminergic neurone.


PMID: 7432535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):368-70.

Molecular analysis of the genetic relationship of trans interacting factors at
the T/t complex.

Alton AK, Silver LM, Artzt K, Bennett D.

The T/t complex is an extensive genetic region proximal to the H-2 complex on
mouse chromosome 17, with multiple effects on embryonic development,
spermatogenesis and recombination. Recently, two-dimensional gel analysis of
testicular cell proteins identified a gene within the T/t complex that codes for 
a major cell surface-associated protein, p63/6.9 (ref. 4). The wild-type gene,
Tcp-1b, codes for a 63,000-molecular weight protein (p63/6.9b), whereas a mutant 
allele, Tcp-1a, which occurs in all intact t haplotypes, codes for a more acidic 
form of the protein (p63/6.9a). Analysis of partial t haplotypes obtained from
rare recombination events showed that Tcp-1a correlated completely with the tail 
interaction factor tT, which is thought to be a genetic allele of T, thus raising
the possibility that the locus of T codes for the p63/6.9 protein. We report here
that the p63/6.9 proteins produced by seven chromosomes carrying independently
derived dominant mutations at the locus of T are all indistinguishable from the
wild-type form; thus, the cumulative data indicate that the Tcp-1 gene is most
probably not at the locus of T.


PMID: 7432534  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):367-8.

Explanation of sterility in txty male mice.

Tucker MJ.

The lethal 't alleles' of the T complex on mouse chromosome 17 (refs 1, 2) have
been assigned to six complementation groups (the definitive classes being t0, t9,
t12, tw1, tw5 and tw73), each causing embryonic death at a particular stage.
Intercomplementation heterozygotes (txty) show 'partial' complementation, so that
only some txty offspring survive. These survivors appear morphologically normal; 
indeed the females, being fertile, seem entirely normal. The txty males, however,
are sterile. Among the reasons given for this sterility in some txty males are
low motility of the txty spermatozoa, and an inability to effect fertilization
either in vitro or in vivo even when already present at the site of
fertilization. Spermatozoa from sterile txty males were reported to be apparently
present in 'normal' numbers in the uterus, although actual ejaculate numbers have
not been quoted for these, or indeed for normal fertile males. In the human,
typical ejaculate counts of less than 20 x 10(6) spermatozoa, where the normal
ejaculate contains 100-250 x 10(6), are judged to indicate clinical sterility.
The comparison of numbers of spermatozoa10 ejaculated into the female tract by
sterile t6tw5, t6tw32 and tw5tw32 (all 'strong' mutations2) and control mice
clearly shows an even greater oligozoospermia (about 100 times less than
controls) occurring in the txty males.


PMID: 7432533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):363-5.

Cortical binocularity in infants.

Braddick O, Atkinson J, Julesz B, Kropfl W, Bodis-Wollner I, Raab E.

The primate visual cortex, including that of man, receives separate input from
each eye and these interact in binocular cortical neurones. This organization is 
known to be vulnerable to disruption in early life. To understand the development
of human visual cortex, and to detect and assess disorders of binocular function 
at the earliest possible age, a robust method is needed for detecting binocular
interactions in the infant's visual system. We have done this by recording
cortical visual evoked responses (VERs) to the onset and offset of binocular
correlation in a large-screen dynamic random dot display. We report here that, in
general, the human infant has a functional binocular visual cortex by 3 months of
age, with some individuals showing cortical binocularity at an earlier age.


PMID: 7432532  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):401-4.

Genes which control cell proliferation in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Sudbery PE, Goodey AR, Carter BL.

In many eukaryotes it is thought that cell proliferation is regulated at a point 
in G1 close to the initiation of DNA synthesis. Hartwell and his colleagues have 
shown such a point in G1 phase in the budding yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae,
defined by the cdc 28 mutation. He has termed this point 'start' and showed that 
for cells to proceed beyond start, initiate DNA synthesis and produce a bud,
various conditions must be met. Two of these conditions are the presence of
adequate nutrients in the medium and attainment of a critical size. We identify
here some of the genes controlling start by isolating mutants which are altered
with respect to the conditions in which start occurs. Two types of mutant have
been isolated. One results in bud initiation when the parent cell is only half
the size at which bud initiation occurs in wild-type cells. Such mutants define a
single gene, whi-1, and they are apparently analogous to the size mutants
isolated by Nurse and his colleagues in Schizosaccharomyces pombe. A second type 
of mutation affects a second gene, whi-2, which is involved in the mechanism
whereby cells arrest in G1 in stationary phase. whi-2- cells growing
exponentially initiate buds at the same size as wild-type cells. In stationary
phase, however, whi-2- cells growing exponentially initiate buds at the same size
as wild-type cells. In stationary phase, however, whi-2- cells, unlike wild-type 
cells, are predominantly budded and are smaller than wild-type cells.


PMID: 7001255  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):394-6.

Monoclonal antibodies which distinguish between human NK cells and cytotoxic T
lymphocytes.

Zarling JM, Kung PC.

Although it is widely accepted that T cells have a major role in specific tumour 
immunity, there is now much evidence that natural killer (NK) cells, which exist 
in many species and spontaneously lyse certain tumour cells in vitro, provide
early resistance against tumour growth. Human NK-cell activity can be augmented
in vitro by interferon and its inducers, including polyinosinic:polycytidylic
acid (poly I:C); furthermore, NK-like activity is generated in mixed leukocyte
cultures (MLCs) as is specific cytotoxic T-cell (Tc) activity. When effector
cells generated in human MLCs lyse allogeneic or autologous virus-transformed or 
tumour cells, it has been difficult to evaluate the relative contributions of Tc 
and NK-like cells to the lysis because the latter, like T cells, can form
rosettes with sheep erythrocytes and react with xenogeneic anti-human thymocyte
serum. We report here that monoclonal antibodies against human mononuclear cell
subpopulations can distinguish Tc from NK and NK-like cells. OKT3 or OKT8
monoclonal antibodies (reactive with virtually all or a subset of T cells,
respectively) with complement (C') ablate MLC-generated Tc activity against
allogeneic normal cells but do not decrease lysis of HLA-negative, NK-sensitive
K562 leukaemia cells by NK, poly I:C-activated NK or MLC-activated NK-like cells.
In contrast, OKM1 monoclonal antibody (reactive with a low proportion of
non-adherent mononuclear cells as well as macrophages) with C' causes marked
diminution of NK and poly I:C-activated NK-cell activity.


PMID: 6968872  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):396-7.

H--2-linked genes control immune response to V-domains of myeloma protein 315.

Jørgensen T, Hannestad K.

Immunoglobulins function as antigen receptors of B lymphocytes and as effector
molecules for elimination of foreign antigens. Recently, other functions have
been revealed: for example, idiotypes (antigenic sites of variable (V) domains)
bound on the surface of plasmacytomas can act as tumour-specific transplantation 
antigens. Moreover, optimal maturation of B lymphocytes of a given idiotype into 
antibody-secreting cells seems to require assistance from two different kinds of 
helper T cells (Th), one bearing receptors complementary or similar to that
idiotype, and another that recognizes the antigen. To learn more about
recognition of V regions by Th, we have used V-domains of the immunoglobulin A
(IgA) (lambda 2) myeloma protein M315 produced by the BALB/c plasmacytoma MOPC315
(ref. 7) as carriers for anti-hapten responses. We report here that the Th
response to the V-domain of the heavy chain (VH) and the light chain (VL) of M315
seems to be under H--2-linked immune response (IR) gene control.


PMID: 6776419  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):338-44.

The Clq receptor site on immunoglobulin G.

Burton DR, Boyd J, Brampton AD, Easterbrook-Smith SB, Emanuel EJ, Novotny J,
Rademacher TW, van Schravendijk MR, Sternberg MJ, Dwek RA.

We propose that, the binding site for the complement subcomponent Clq on
immunoglobulin G involves the last two (C-terminal) beta-strands of the C gamma 2
domain. This region contains a large number of accessible and highly conserved
charged residues and charge is postulated as an important component of the
Clq-IgG interaction. The conclusions are reached on the basis of accessibility
and sequence conservation analyses of C gamma 2 amino acid residues, the use of
specific inhibitors and chemical modification studies.


PMID: 6776418  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):391-3.

Precursor and effector phenotypes of activated human T lymphocytes.

Fainboim L, Navarrete C, Festenstein H.

In mice, thymus-derived lymphocytes are differentiated into functional subclasses
by their cell surface antigens. The Ly 1 determinants are present on T cells with
a helper function, whereas Ly 2 and Ly 3 antigens are expressed on the surface of
lymphocytes with suppressor or cytotoxic functions. In man also, T-cell subsets
have been identified using allo- and heteroimmune sera and, more recently, using 
monoclonal antibodies, which seem to identify helper and suppressor or cytotoxic 
subpopulations. The major histocompatibility system (MHS)-encoded Ia antigens
belong to several polymorphic families of membrane associated glycoproteins
originally found on B lymphocytes; however, they have also been shown to be
markers for suppressor T cells in mice. Recent studies have shown that in both
mouse and man, T cells activated by a mixed lymphocyte reaction or by mitogens
become Ia+. Furthermore, some human T lymphoid cells, either freshly isolated
from peripheral blood or after in vitro activation by lectins or alloantigens,
possess suppressor properties. We report here the phenotype of a T
suppressor-cell subpopulation which was induced in long-term culture of lymphoid 
cells after activation with phytohaemagglutinin (PHA). Our results suggest that a
subset of T cells was progressively expanded over a period of 8 days in culture
and that, with the expression on the surface of these cells of 'Ia-like'
antigens, they acquired the capacity to suppress the proliferative response of
syngeneic or allogeneic lymphocytes to alloantigens or mitogens.


PMID: 6448962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):404-6.

Conservation and rearrangement of mitochondrial structural gene sequences.

Macino G, Scazzocchio C, Waring RB, Berks MM, Davies RW.

Mitochondria contain the simplest DNA molecules that are present in eukaryotes.
Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is easily purified, and is an important model system
for studying eukaryote gene structure and basic molecular processes. The protein 
sequences of mitochondrial gene products have been shown to be conserved from
yeast to man, and there are definite similarities at the DNA sequence level. In
contrast, the overall organization of the mitochondrial genome is drastically
different in these organisms. To understand this, we need to extend work on mtDNA
to a wider range of species. We have chosen to study the mtDNA of Aspergillus
nidulans because a particularly comprehensive analysis of this system can be
achieved using genetics as well as biochemistry, and like most eukaryotes it is
an obligate aerobe, whereas Saccharomyces cerevisiae is not. We have investigated
whether defined pieces of particular yeast mitochondrial genes show enough
homology to Aspergillus mtDNA fragments to enable the corresponding Aspergillus
genes to be located on the physical map. The results reported here show that this
is the case for all five genes tested, and present the first data on the physical
organization of the structural genes in the mitochondrial genome of A. nidulans.


PMID: 6253835  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):400-1.

Retroviral antigens on gs- chf- leukocytes.

Jurdic P, Huppert J, Greenland T, Heller E.

It has recently been suggested that the endogenous retroviruses present in many
different species might be involved during stimulation of the immune system of
their hosts. We have now studied the expression of two avian retroviral antigens 
p27 and gp85 in chicken lymphoid cells by indirect immunofluorescence (IIF) and
by complement-dependent microcytotoxicity (CDM). We have now found that these
viral antigens are expressed in peripheral blood leukocytes of adults and embryos
and in splenic and bursal lymphocytes of Spafas gs- chf- chickens but they are
not expressed in fibroblasts cultured from the feather follicles of the same
individual adult birds nor in fibroblasts cultured from embryos of the same
flock. The differential expression of viral antigens in leukocytes may be related
to a specific property or function of these cells.


PMID: 6253834  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):383-5.

Induction of diabetes by cumulative environmental insults from viruses and
chemicals.

Toniolo A, Onodera T, Yoon JW, Notkins AL.

Encephalomyocarditis virus (EMC) induces diabetes in certain inbred strains of
mice by infecting and destroying pancreatic beta cells, the severity of the
diabetes depending on the number of beta cells destroyed. In strains of mice
resistant to EMC-induced diabetes, insufficient beta cells are damaged to alter
glucose homeostasis. However, diabetes can be produced in many species by
streptozotocin, a highly specific beta-cell toxin. Here, we used concentrations
of streptozotocin that did not produce diabetes, but reduced the beta-cell
reserve. When strains of mice normally resistant to EMC-induced diabetes were
first treated with sub-diabetogenic doses of streptozotocin, then infected with
EMC virus, diabetes developed. Furthermore, when mice were infected with viruses 
such as Coxsackie B3 and B5, which ordinarily produce little if any beta-cell
damage, diabetes developed if the mice were first treated with sub-diabetogenic
doses of streptozotocin. These findings suggest that diabetes may result from
cumulative beta-cell damage induced by sequential environmental insults.


PMID: 6253833  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):382-3.

Do human platelets have opiate receptors?

Reches A, Eldor A, Vogel Z, Salomon Y.

In their study of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1)-sensitive adenylate cyclase (AC) in rat
brain homogenates, Collier and Roy claimed that the activity of this enzyme is
inhibited by opiates. They also proposed that opiates exert their analgesic and
allied effects by inhibiting AC of neurones that are normally stimulated by E
prostaglandins. Studies using neuroblastoma x glioma hybrid cells supported this 
hypothesis. However, subsequent studies with mammalian brain and rat brain tissue
slices yielded conflicting results. PGE1 also inhibits platelet aggregation,
probably through activation of platelet AC. Gryglewski et al. showed that
morphine inhibits the anti-aggregating effect of PGE1 on ADP- and
adrenaline-induced platelet aggregation, and suggested that the inhibition by
morphine is mediated through platelet AC activity. We report here our attempts to
reproduce the results of Gryglewski et al. and our examination of the effect of
morphine on PGE1-sensitive AC activity in platelet lysates and on PGE1-induced
accumulation of cyclic AMP in intact platelets. The possible existence of opiate 
receptors in platelets was also assessed by direct binding studies with
3H-etorphine. In contrast to Gryglewski et al., we could not detect any effect of
opiates on the aggregation of human platelets, nor did we find any other evidence
supporting the presence of opiate receptors in these cells. Thus we conclude that
the presence of opiate receptors in human platelets is unlikely.


PMID: 6253832  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):373-6.

The obligatory role of endothelial cells in the relaxation of arterial smooth
muscle by acetylcholine.

Furchgott RF, Zawadzki JV.

Despite its very potent vasodilating action in vivo, acetylcholine (ACh) does not
always produce relaxation of isolated preparations of blood vessels in vitro. For
example, in the helical strip of the rabbit descending thoracic aorta, the only
reported response to ACh has been graded contractions, occurring at
concentrations above 0.1 muM and mediated by muscarinic receptors. Recently, we
observed that in a ring preparation from the rabbit thoracic aorta, ACh produced 
marked relaxation at concentrations lower than those required to produce
contraction (confirming an earlier report by Jelliffe). In investigating this
apparent discrepancy, we discovered that the loss of relaxation of ACh in the
case of the strip was the result of unintentional rubbing of its intimal surface 
against foreign surfaces during its preparation. If care was taken to avoid
rubbing of the intimal surface during preparation, the tissue, whether ring,
transverse strip or helical strip, always exhibited relaxation to ACh, and the
possibility was considered that rubbing of the intimal surface had removed
endothelial cells. We demonstrate here that relaxation of isolated preparations
of rabbit thoracic aorta and other blood vessels by ACh requires the presence of 
endothelial cells, and that ACh, acting on muscarinic receptors of these cells,
stimulates release of a substance(s) that causes relaxation of the vascular
smooth muscle. We propose that this may be one of the principal mechanisms for
ACh-induced vasodilation in vivo. Preliminary reports on some aspects of the work
have been reported elsewhere.


PMID: 6253831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):333-8.

Voltage-dependent translocation of the asialoglycoprotein receptor across lipid
membranes.

Blumenthal R, Klausner RD, Weinstein JN.

A membrane receptor protein for asialoglycoproteins induces voltage-dependent
increases in ion conductance across a lipid bilayer, probably reflecting
penetration of the protein into the bilayer towards an electrically positive
pole. In the presence of specific ligand for the receptor, this penetration leads
to a 'translocation' of the receptor from one side of the bilayer to the other.
These observations suggest a mechanism by which biological membranes might
regulate the disposition of their proteins, and a way in which membrane receptors
involved in endocytosis might be spared lysosomal destruction in order to be
recycled to the plasma membrane.


PMID: 6253830  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):397-9.

Sperm-specific surface antigenicity common to seven animal phyla.

Lopo AC, Vacquier VD.

While studying the plasma membrane of sperm of the sea urchin Strongylocentrotus 
purpuratus, we developed an antiserum that exhibits unusual reactivity--it
cross-reacts with the surfaces of spermatozoa of 28 species representing seven
phyla of the animal kingdom. A negative cross-reaction has not been found. This
suggests the possible existence of common antigenic determinants on the surface
of all animal sperm. We report these preliminary results here because of the
broad implications common sperm-surface antigenicity has for the potential
development of immunocontraceptive methods.


PMID: 6159556  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):389-90.

Spontaneous remission of autoimmune encephalomyelitis is inhibited by
splenectomy, thymectomy or ageing.

Ben-Nun A, Ron Y, Cohen IR.

Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) can be induced in genetically
susceptible animals by injecting them with basic protein of myelin (BP) in a
suitable adjuvant. EAE in adult Lewis rats is expressed clinically by acute
paralysis and histologically by mononuclear cell infiltration of the central
nervous system. Most rats spontaneously recover from EAE and show little or no
damage to myelin. We report here that chronic progressive EAE with marked myelin 
lesions can be induced by a single injection of BP in complete Freund's adjuvant 
in intact 13-month old rats, or in 4-month old rats provided they have been
splenectomized. Juvenile 2 1/2-month old rats recover spontaneously despite
splenectomy. Thymectomy of young adult rats leads to relapsing EAE. These results
illustrate that the clinical course of EAE is markedly influenced by age and
integrity of immune organs. Furthermore, they provide an experimental model with 
features similar to those of chronic relapsing disease of the nervous system of
man.


PMID: 6159555  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):385-7.

Tolerance as an active process.

Teale JM, Klinman NR.

The clonal deletion model proposed by Burnet and Lederberg and expanded by Nossal
was one of the first theories concerning the nature of tolerance of self
constituents. The model proposed that during the maturation of lymphocytes into
immunocompetent cells, there is a sensitive differentiation stage whereby contact
wth antigen results in specific inactivation of the cell. Experimental evidence
indicates that neonatal or immature B lymphocytes are indeed different from adult
lymphocytes in their extreme sensitivity to tolerance induction even at low
antigen concentrations and with antigens that are normally immunogenic. The
present study examines the mechanism of this tolerance phenomenon by determining 
whether or not tolerance of immature B cells is an active process and what
specific interactions can induce this event. We used various putative inhibitors 
of tolerance induction in the splenic focus assay which examines the tolerance
susceptibility of individual B cells. The results suggest that tolerance requires
protein synthesis and that this process is initiated only after a minimum
threshold affinity of binding occurs between antigen and cell-surface receptor
with subsequent receptor interlinkage.


PMID: 6159554  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):380-2.

Peptidergic transmitters in synaptic boutons of sympathetic ganglia.

Jan LY, Jan YN, Brownfield MS.

In sympathetic ganglia of the bullfrog, a slow synaptic potential lasting for
minutes--the late slow excitatory postsynaptic potential (e.p.s.p.)--was
discovered. This slow response, unlike other previously known synaptic potentials
in the autonomic nervous system, is not mediated by acetylcholine or monoamines. 
Similar non-cholinergic, non-adrenergic slow synaptic potentials have since been 
found in several other vertebrate autonomic ganglia. We found that the late slow 
e.p.s.p. is probably mediated by a peptide that is identical to, or closely
resembles, mammalian luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH), because (1)
when applied directly to sympathetic neurones, LHRH and its agonists elicit a
slow depolarization, associated with similar changes in membrane conductance and 
excitability as those occurring during the late slow e.p.s.p. Furthermore, both
peptide-induced and nerve-evoked responses are blocked by antagonists of LHRH;
and (2) radioimmunoassays indicate that a chain of sympathetic ganglia contains
100-800 pg of a LHRH-like peptide. Its distribution among spinal nerves, the
great reduction of this substance following denervation, and its release from
ganglia following isotonic KCl treatment or nerve stimulation suggest that the
LHRH-like material is contained in preganglionic nerve fibres. Here we report
that immunohistochemical staining of sympathetic ganglia shows that LHRH-like
immunoreactivity is indeed present in synaptic boutons. We also show that the two
types of ganglion cells (B cells and C cells) receive strikingly different
patterns of peptidergic innervation.


PMID: 6107864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Nature. 1980 Nov 27;288(5789):378-80.

VIP as a possible neurotransmitter of non-cholinergic non-adrenergic inhibitory
neurones.

Goyal RK, Rattan S, Said SI.

Many peripheral autonomic nerves are neither cholinergic nor adrenergic. Such
nerves are widely distributed in the gastrointestinal, urogenital and respiratory
tracts, and in blood vessels. The nature of their neurotransmitter is not known. 
We have previously reported that vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) is a
potent inhibitor of opossum lower oesophageal sphincter (LOS) and that its
inhibitory effect is exerted directly on the sphincter muscle. Subsequent studies
have confirmed the inhibitory effect of VIP on LOS in other species. Recently,
very high tissue levels of VIP have been reported in the LOS and other
gastrointestinal sphincters. Furthermore, VIP has been localized to intramural
neurones and is released upon electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve. We
report here that immunoantagonism of VIP with a high-titre antiserum antagonized 
inhibitory neuromuscular transmission in the LOS. These findings provide evidence
of a role for VIP as an inhibitory neurotransmitter.


PMID: 6107863  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Nature. 1980 Nov 20;288(5788):298-300.

Helix packing and subunit conformation in horse spleen apoferritin.

Clegg GA, Stansfield RF, Bourne PE, Harrison PM.

An electron density map of horse spleen apoferritin at 0.28-nm (2.8 A) resolution
and its preliminary interpretation have been described previously. Rigorous
examination of this and newer maps at the same nominal resolution but calculated 
from more extensive data sets, including model building in a Richards'
comparator, now allows us to report on structural features in more detail. We
list inter-helical angles within and between neighbouring subunits, and describe 
a new short region of inter-subunit anti-parallel pleated sheet. A short section 
of electron density not properly accounted for in the first model has also been
found. We also report on two alternative ways of connecting helical regions which
account almost equally well for the observed electron density, and we assess
these two alternative conformations and compare them with the conformations of
other known proteins.


PMID: 7432529  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Nature. 1980 Nov 20;288(5788):293-6.

Methylation map of Xenopus laevis ribosomal RNA.

Maden BE.

One of the most enigmatic features of eukaryotic ribosomal RNA is the presence of
many methylated nucleotides. The numbers of RNA methyl groups range from
approximately 70 per ribosome in yeast to over 100 in vertebrates. Here it is
shown that the methylated nucleotides in Xenopus laevis rRNA are broadly but
non-uniformly distributed. In 18S rRNA 2'-O-methylations are partly concentrated 
in the 5' region and base methylations near the 3' end. In 28S rRNA methyl groups
are infrequent in the 5' region, moderately frequent in the central region and
abundant in an 1,100-nucleotide tract near the 3' end.


PMID: 7432528  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Nature. 1980 Nov 20;288(5788):283-6.

3H-apomorphine labels both dopamine postsynaptic receptors and autoreceptors.

Sokoloff P, Martres MP, Schwartz JC.

Evidence points to the existence of multiple classes of dopamine (DA) receptor in
mammalian brain which can be distinguished by their pharmacological specificities
and localizations, and by the actions they mediate. Among them, dopaminergic
autoreceptors are regulatory receptors presumed to be present in the membrane of 
the DA neurones themselves, and believed to mediate an inhibition of these
neurones' activity, either at nerve endings or on cell bodies. However, the
pharmacology of autoreceptors remains to be established because attempts to
characterize autoreceptors by 3H-ligand binding techniques have produced
controversial data. Thus Seeman and co-workers stated that 3H-apomorphine
selectively labels autoreceptors, whereas Creese et al. concluded that this
ligand selectively labels postsynaptic DA receptors. In addition, large
differences in the capacity and drug specificity of 3H-apomorphine receptor sites
in rat striatum have been reported. We demonstrate here that 3H-apomorphine
labels two classes of DA receptor, distinguishable using domperidone, a selective
DA antagonist. Lesion studies indicate that they correspond to a certain class of
postsynaptic receptor and to autoreceptors, respectively. Each of these classes
displays a clearly distinct pharmacological specificity for antipsychotics and DA
agonists.


PMID: 7432527  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Nature. 1980 Nov 20;288(5788):277-9.

The possible functional significance of phosphatidylethanolamine methylation.

Vance DE, de Kruijff B.

The conversion of phosphatidylethanolamine to phosphatidylcholine was first
reported in rat liver microsomes by Bremer and Greenberg. The reaction requires
three successive methylations of the ethanolamine moiety by S-adenosylmethionine.
The highest activity for this enzyme has been found in liver microsomes and the
enzyme from rat liver was recently solubilized and partially purified. Although
the activity is highest in liver, it is the minor pathway in this tissue for the 
synthesis of phosphatidylcholine. The enzyme has recently been identified in
bovine adrenal medulla and reports exist on the activity of
phosphatidylethanolamine methyltransferase in erythrocyte ghosts, reticulocyte
ghosts and mammary gland membranes. In view of the relatively minor importance of
the methylation pathway in phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis in liver, we were
intrigued by the reports of significant physiological changes attributed to
phospholipid methylation. Calculations reported here show that this enzymatic
activity in reticulocytes, erythrocytes and mammary gland membranes is 0.1% of
that observed in liver microsomes. Furthermore, in conditions where marked
changes in microviscosity of the erythrocyte membrane were observed, only
extremely small amounts of phosphatidylethanolamine were methylated. For these
and other reasons, there is considerable doubt that methylation of
phosphatidylethanolamine could account for the many physiological responses
attributed to this activity.


PMID: 7432526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Nature. 1980 Nov 20;288(5788):275-7.

Stimulus-secretion coupling in rabbit neutrophils is not mediated by
phosphatidylinositol breakdown.

Cockcroft S, Bennett JP, Gomperts BD.

In common with other cells which use intracellular Ca2+ to mediate specific cell 
function, when rabbit neutrophils are stimulated with specific agonists the rate 
of metabolism of phosphatidylinositol (PI) increases. This is normally measured
as the incorporation of radioactive phosphate or inositol into PI, but these
reactions are presumed to be secondary processes following the initial breakdown 
of pre-existing PI to diacylglycerol. The radioactive labels are incorporated
during the stepwise resynthesis of PI via phosphatidic acid (PA). It has been
suggested that in the sequence of biochemical events, starting with the binding
of the ligand to a receptor, and finally resulting in the expression of cellular 
activity, the breakdown of PI is an early event immediately directed by
activation of the receptor. This could then control the increase in cytoplasmic
Ca2+ and other processes dependent on this. Here we report an analysis of the
temporal relationship between these phospholipid changes and cell stimulation.
Our evidence suggests that in neutrophils, PI breakdown and PA labelling are both
consequences and not causes of a rise in intracellular Ca2+.


PMID: 7432525  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Nature. 1980 Nov 20;288(5788):273-5.

High-affinity anti-oestrogen binding site distinct from the oestrogen receptor.

Sutherland RL, Murphy LC, San Foo M, Green MD, Whybourne AM, Krozowski ZS.

Non-steroidal anti-oestrogens such as tamoxifen, CI 628, nafoxidine and
clomiphene, are structurally related synthetic compounds that antagonize the
effects of oestrogen on its target tissues, and this activity has led to the use 
of tamoxifen to treat advanced breast cancer. All these compounds inhibit the
binding of tritiated oestradiol to cytosol from oestrogen target tissues,
suggesting that anti-oestrogens bind to the oestrogen receptor. This is supported
by reports that in the rat uterus and dimethyl-benz (alpha)-anthracene
(DMBA)-induced rat mammary carcinoma, oestradiol and anti-oestrogens bind
directly to the same number of saturable binding sites. Furthermore, oestrogens
and anti-oestrogens are mutually competitive for binding to these sites. It has
thus been generally accepted that the anti-oestrogens exert most of their effects
through the specific oestrogen receptor. We now report a further high-affinity,
anti-oestrogen binding site which may have a role in regulating the effects of
non-steroidal anti-oestrogens.


PMID: 7432524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Nature. 1980 Nov 20;288(5788):286-8.

The enkephalinase inhibitor thiorphan shows antinociceptive activity in mice.

Roques BP, Fournié-Zaluski MC, Soroca E, Lecomte JM, Malfroy B, Llorens C,
Schwartz JC.

There is both theoretical and therapeutic interest in establishing whether the
signals conveyed by the enkephalins are turned off under the action of a specific
peptidase which might, in this case, represent a target for a new class of
psychoactive agents. Enkephalinase, a dipeptidyl carboxypeptidase cleaving the
Gly3-Phe4 bond of enkephalins and distinct fropm angiotensin coverting enzyme
(ACE), might be selectively involved in enkephalinergic transmission. It is a
membrane-bound enzyme whose localization in the vicinity of opiate receptors in
the central nervous system is suggested by parallel regional and subcellular
distributions as well as by the effects of lesions. Such a role is further
supported by the ontogenetic development of enkephalinase, its substrate
specificity accounting for the increased biological activity of several
enkephalin analogues and its adaptive increase following chronic treatment with
morphine. To investigate the functional role of this enzyme further, we have
designed a potent and specific enkephalinase inhibitor. We report here that this 
compound, thiorphan [(DL-3-mercapto-2-benzylpropanoyl)-glycine; patent no.
8008601] protects the enkephalins from the action of enkephalinase in vitro in
nanomolar concentration and in vivo after either intracerebroventricular or
systemic administration. In addition, thiorphan itself displays antinociceptive
activity which is blocked by naloxone, an antagonist of opiate receptors.


PMID: 7001254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Nature. 1980 Nov 20;288(5788):266-9.

Why are fetal muscles slow?

Kelly AM, Rubinstein NA.

Differentiating fast and slow mammalian muscles contract slowly at birth and
increase their speed during the first few weeks of life. However, only small
proportions of slow myosin light chains are found in early developing muscles and
the fast type of light chains predominate. In addition, differentiating muscle
contains unique, embryonic forms of myosin which may partially determine the
early slow responses. The present study suggests additional reasons for these
slow twitch times. Most skeletal muscles are initially formed from a small
population of primary generation cells which are innervated by pioneering axons
early in myogenesis. Subsequently, numerous secondary generation cells develop
along the walls of primary myotubes, then separate and become independent units
of contraction. Using affinity-purified antibodies to fast and slow myosin, it
was found that most primary myotubes react with anti-slow myosin and are destined
to become slow, Type I fibres. By contrast, secondary generation cells stain
exclusively with anti-fast myosin and develop into Type II, fast fibres. We
propose that primary myotubes constitute the fundamental motor units of the
developing neuromuscular system and are responsible for early slow movements.
Secondary generation cells become organized into large, fast motor units later in
development, eclipsing the original slow response.


PMID: 7001253  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Nature. 1980 Nov 20;288(5788):236-41.

Nucleotide sequence of cdna coding for Semliki Forest virus membrane
glycoproteins.

Garoff H, Frischauf AM, Simons K, Lehrach H, Delius H.

The genes coding for the three membrane polypeptides of Semliki Forest virus have
been sequenced and the primary structures of the proteins deduced. The amino acid
sequence gives further insight into how the transmembrane structure of the
three-chain virus membrane glycoprotein is generated in the infected cell.


PMID: 6985476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Nature. 1980 Nov 20;288(5788):296-8.

Structure of crystalline actin sheets.

Aebi U, Smith PR, Isenberg G, Pollard TD.

Although actin is one of the most abundant proteins found in nature, little
detailed information about its molecular structure is available beyond the amino 
acid sequence. Electron microscopy of negatively stained filaments combined with 
three-dimensional image reconstruction techniques have revealed the overall size 
and shape of the actin monomer at 25 A resolution. Higher resolution structural
data can be expected from electron microscopy of two-dimensional crystalline
arrays and X-ray diffraction analysis of three-dimensional crystals, but only
very preliminary results have been reported so far. The original finding by Dos
Remedios and Dickens was that skeletal muscle actin forms microcrystals and tubes
in the presence of the trivalent lanthanide gadolinium (Gd3+). We have modified
and refined their conditions to obtain large crystalline sheets of Acanthamoeba
actin and present here a model of the actin monomer in projection to 15 A
resolution. We have found that, depending on the ionic strength used, these
sheets occur in three different forms: 'cylinders', 'square type' sheets and
'rectangular type' sheets. These different polymorphic forms are built from the
same fundamental two-dimensional crystalline actin lattice, which we call the
'basic sheet'. The present concerns the structural analysis of these basic
sheets; the crystal polymorphism will be discussed in detail elsewhere (U.A. et
al., in preparation). Furthermore, in addition to demonstrating that actin is an 
elongated globular molecule with a pronounced asymmetric shape in and
perpendicular to the plane of the sheet, our results indicate that these
crystalline actin sheets might be suitable for three-dimensional structure
determination by low-dose electron microscopy of unstained specimens to at least 
10 A resolution.


PMID: 6893623  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Nature. 1980 Nov 20;288(5788):290-3.

Immunoglobulin Cmu RNA in T lymphoma cells is not translated.

Walker ID, Harris AW.

It is widely believed that immunoglobulin genes might encode at least part of the
receptor for antigen on the T lymphocyte. Evidence supporting this comes from the
effects of anti-immunoglobulin idiotype antibodies on cellular immune networks
and from the presence of idiotypes on immunologically active factors from T
cells. Detailed molecular characterization of the receptors, however, has been
seriously hampered by the lack of a suitable cellular source from which it might 
be isolated. The recent demonstration of Kemp et al. that thymocytes and certain 
cultured lines of mouse T lymphoma cells contain polyadenylated RNA molecules
encoded by the immunoglobulin Cmu gene (Cmu RNA) prompted us to identify the
corresponding protein molecules in those cells. As the haploid mouse genome
contains a single Cmu gene, any polypeptide encoded by this gene should react
with at least some of the antibodies present in rabbit anti-mouse IgM antiserum. 
In this letter we report that a number of T lymphoma lines, regardless of whether
they contain Cmu RNA, synthesize no detectable mu polypeptides.


PMID: 6776417  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Nature. 1980 Nov 20;288(5788):271-3.

Pathophysiological states modify levels in rat plasma of factors which inhibit
synthesis and enhance breakdown of PG.

Moore PK, Hoult JR.

We have shown recently that adaptive changes in the apparent amount of enzymes
which synthesize and inactivate prostaglandins (PGs) occur in a reciprocal manner
(see accompanying paper and refs 2-4). For example, PG synthetase activity in
several rat organs is reduced but that of PG-metabolizing enzymes
('prostaglandinases') is increased after treatment with anti-inflammatory
steroids. In view of recent reports that the synthesis of PG-like substances may 
be influenced by plasma factors, we wondered whether our findings may be
explained in whole or in part by the presence in varying amounts of substances
which affect PG synthesis and inactivation in opposite directions. We show here
that rat plasma contains a protein factor(s) which inhibits the synthesis of PGs 
and enhances their enzymatic breakdown in vitro and which we provisionally call
prostaglandin 'reciprocal coupling factor' (RCF). Furthermore, RCF is rapidly
released in response to anti-inflammatory steroids and its levels are altered in 
the two model pathophysiological states so far investigated.


PMID: 6776416  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Nature. 1980 Nov 20;288(5788):269-70.

Anti-inflammatory steroids reduce tissue PG synthetase activity and enhance PG
breakdown.

Moore PK, Hoult JR.

Anti-inflammatory steroids reduce prostaglandin (PG) synthesis in intact cells
and isolated organs by interfering indirectly with the phospholipase(s) which
release the poly-unsaturated fatty acid precursors for both cyclooxygenase and
lipoxygenase pathways. This action requires nucleic acid transcription and
synthesis of new protein, and a soluble factor capable of inhibiting PG
generation has been identified. However, it is not known whether these steroids
affect either the actions or content of the enzymes of the PG system after
administration in vivo, nor is it known if they affect PG-metabolizing enzymes.
We show here that treatment of rats with anti-inflammatory steroids causes rapid 
changes in tissue activities of enzymes which synthesize and inactivate PGs, with
apparent levels reduced and increased respectively.


PMID: 6776415  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Nature. 1980 Nov 20;288(5788):288-90.

Herpes simplex virus DNA sequences in the CNS of latently infected mice.

Cabrera CV, Wohlenberg C, Openshaw H, Rey-Mendez M, Puga A, Notkins AL.

It has been amply documented that herpes simplex virus (HSV) persists in sensory 
ganglia of the peripheral nervous system (PNS). In contrast, HSV latency in the
central nervous system (CNS) has not been well characterized. Corneal inoculation
of virus results in a productive viral infection in the CNS during the first week
after inoculation, indicating that the virus can progress from the PNS to the
CNS. During latency, HSV has been found by co-cultivation of CNS tissue in only a
very small fraction of inoculated mice. We have used here molecular hybridization
techniques to analyse the fate of viruses that reach the CNS by anatomical
pathways. We show that 6 days after corneal inoculation of HSV-1 a productive
viral infection was present in brain tissue as well as in peripheral ganglia in
at least 90%F of the inoculated mice. The mortality during this acute phase was
only 2%. In the survivors, latent HSV could be recovered by explantation from 95%
of the trigeminal ganglia, but only 5% of the brain tissue explants of the same
mice yielded infectious virus. However, HSV DNA sequences were detected in the
brains of 30% of mice which harboured latent HSV in their trigeminal ganglia.
These results suggest that viruses that progress from the PNS into the CNS are
not eliminated, but are capable of establishing a latent infection in the CNS
that cannot be reactivated by explantation techniques.


PMID: 6253827  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Nature. 1980 Nov 20;288(5788):280-3.

A new class of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.

Patchett AA, Harris E, Tristram EW, Wyvratt MJ, Wu MT, Taub D, Peterson ER,
Ikeler TJ, ten Broeke J, Payne LG, Ondeyka DL, Thorsett ED, Greenlee WJ, Lohr NS,
Hoffsommer RD, Joshua H, Ruyle WV, Rothrock JW, Aster SD, Maycock AL, Robinson
FM, Hirschmann R, Sweet CS, Ulm EH, Gross DM, Vassil TC, Stone CA.

Much current attention focuses on the renin-angiotensin system in relation to
mechanisms controlling blood pressure and renal function. Recent demonstrations
(ref. 1, ref. 2 and refs therein) that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors
show promising clinical antihypertensive properties have been of particular
interest. We now report on the design of a novel series of substituted
N-carboxymethyl-dipeptides which are active in inhibiting angiotensin-converting 
enzyme at nanomolar levels. We suggest that these compounds are transition-state 
inhibitors and that extensions of this design to other metalloendopeptidases
merit further study.


PMID: 6253826  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Nature. 1980 Nov 20;288(5788):279-80.

Reduced somatostatin-like immunoreactivity in cerebral cortex from cases of
Alzheimer disease and Alzheimer senile dementa.

Davies P, Katzman R, Terry RD.

Both Alzheimer's disease and senile dementia of the Alzheimer type (AD/SDAT) are 
progressive dementias characterized neuropathologically by the presence in the
cerebral cortex of numerous neurofibrillary tangles and neuritic plaques. We use 
the abbreviation AD/SDAT to denote all such cases, irrespective of age of onset. 
Studies of neurotransmitter-related parameters in autopsied brain tissues from
patients with AD/SDAT have, to date, been confined to five putative transmitter
systems. Acetycholine-releasing neurones seem to be most markedly and
consistently affected, as judged by the extensive reductions in choline
acetyltransferase (ChAT) and acetylcholinesterase activities that have been
reported. Despite numerous studies, there is no consistent evidence for the
involvement of neurones releasing dopamine, noradrenaline, serotonin, or
gamma-aminobutyric acid in AD/SDAT, nor for loss of muscarinic cholinergic
receptors. Thus, the involvement of cholinergic neurones in AD/SDAT seems to be
specific. However, the possible involvement of neurones using other chemicals as 
transmitters has yet to be explored. The recent recognition of the existence of
so-called 'peptidergic neurones' in the mammalian brain (for review see ref. 8)
and the availability of radioimmunoassay (RIA) techniques for studying these
peptides, have led us to begin a systematic investigation of neuropeptides in
autopsied brain tissue from cases of AD/SDAT, and from neurologically normal
individuals. We report here results obtained with a RIA for somatostatin, showing
that somatostatin-like immunoreactivity in the cerebral cortex is reduced in
tissue from AD/SDAT patients.


PMID: 6107862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Nature. 1980 Nov 13;288(5787):185-41.

Differential repair of O(6)-methylguanine in DNA of rat hepatocytes and
nonparenchymal cells.

Lewis JG, Swenberg JA.

Chronic administration of several chemical carcinogens to laboratory animals
induces a variety of tumours which arise from specific cell populations within
the liver. In the rat, diethylnitrosamine induces hepatocellular carcinomas,
dimethylnitrosamine induces both angiosarcomas and hepatocellular carcinomas,
vinyl chloride primarily induces angiosarcomas, and 1,2-dimethylhydrazine induces
malignant haemangioendotheliomas. One of the principal mechanisms thought to be
involved in initiating carcinogenesis is the alkylation of specific sites on DNA,
such as the O(6) position of guanine. Previous investigations of alkylation and
repair have, however, analysed DNA prepared from whole liver. This approach does 
not localize alkylation or repair capacity in the different cell types which give
rise to neoplasia. Furthermore, although hepatocytes account for more than 90% of
the liver's mass, they only comprise 60-70% of its cells. The nonparenchymal cell
(NPC) population, which consists almost entirely of endothelial and Kupffer
cells, accounts for the remaining 30-40% and contains 10-20% of the DNA.
Therefore, we decided to investigate the alkylation and repair of O(6)-and
7-methylguanine in the target and non-target cells following oral administration 
of 1,2-dimethylhydrazine. We report here that although initial alkylation was
slightly less in NPCs, removal of O(6)-methylguanine was significantly slower.
This led to a preferential accumulation of O(6)-methylguanine in NPC 24 h after
administering a second daily dose. In contrast, 7-methylguanine decreased at
similar rates, resulting in a 28-fold greater O(6)-methylguanine/7-methylguanine 
ratio in the target cell population.


PMID: 7432520  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Nature. 1980 Nov 13;288(5787):181-3.

Quantification of noradrenaline iontophoresis.

Armstrong-James M, Millar J, Kruk ZL.

Several problems are encountered when iontophoresis is used to study the effects 
of putative neurotransmitters. The most significant is that it is not usually
practical to estimate the concentration of drug obtained at the tip of the
microelectrode by a current of a given strength. The usual methods, albeit rarely
used, include measurement of transport numbers, the use of ion-sensitive
microelectrodes and quantitative fluorescent microscopy. With the exception of
the ion-sensitive microelectrodes developed for acetylcholine, these techniques
are elaborate and time consuming, and cannot be routinely applied to every
electrode used. Furthermore, conventional multibarrel microelectrodes have
high-impedance recording barrels and thus often display low signal-to-noise
ratios when recording single-cell activity, the noise being increased during
iontophoresis. We describe here a technique with largely overcomes the problem of
low spike signal-to-noise ratio in conventional multibarrel electrodes, and
which, unlike the latter, also allows precise determination of the concentration 
of noradrenaline in the environment of the cells, which affects its excitability.
The recording and iontophoretic properties of these electrodes have been
described previously. The use of these electrodes to quantify precisely
iontophoresed noradrenaline by adapting polarographic techniques is described.


PMID: 7432519  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Nature. 1980 Nov 13;288(5787):179-81.

Differential expression of H-2 gene products in tumour cells in associated with
their metastatogenic properties.

De Baetselier P, Katzav S, Gorelik E, Feldman M, Segal S.

Many neoplasms seem to be heterogeneous in nature, producing metastases by
pre-existing variant cells with inherent biochemical and biological properties.
The survival and proliferation of metastatic cells depend on various biological
properties, such as enzymes which degrade basement membranes, resistance to
various host defence systems, association with host cellular components,
adhesiveness and expression of certain membrane glycoproteins. Recent studies
have indicated that metastatic cells may differ from the local tumour cells in
the expression of immune recognizable membrane-associated antigens. Such
antigenic differences may result from an immunoselection of cells with distinct
antigenic properties due to a specific immune response evoked against the local
tumour. In view of the role of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) system 
in controlling and restricting the function of immune effector cells against
modified self-components, one could assume that the modulation of the expression 
of MHC-encoded antigens on the membrane of tumour cells influenced the
interclonal relationship within a local heterogeneous tumour cell population and 
the subsequent generation of metastasis. The modulation of the expression of H-2 
antigens on several murine tumours is well documented; however, practically no
attempts were made to relate H-2 modulation with invasiveness. We now describe
principal differences in the expression of H-2 parental haplotypes between a
local F1 methylcholanthrene-induced tumour and its descendant pulmonary
metastases. These results suggest that both the expression and the immunogenicity
of MHC products strongly influence the immune relationship between the tumour and
the host's immune system, thus determining the generation and dissemination of
metastases.


PMID: 7432518  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Nature. 1980 Nov 13;288(5787):176-8.

Phorbol ester-induced differentiation of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia cells.

Tötterman TH, Nilsson K, Sundström C.

The croton oil-derived tumour-promoting agent
12-O-tetra-decanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) exerts pleiotropic effects on the
differentiation and proliferation of both normal and malignant animal and human
cells in vitro. TPA is mitogenic in nanomolar concentration to chickens embryo
fibroblasts and human T lymphocytes and inhibits the terminal differentiation of 
various committed embryonic cells and mouse Friend erythroleukaemia or myeloid
leukaemia cells. TPA induces a terminal cell differentiation in some murine and
human myeloid leukaemia and histiocytic lymphoma cells. We report here the effect
of TPA on chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) biopsy cells in vitro. In four out 
of five CLL patients studied, TPA induced the appearance of 90-100% of
lymphoblastoid and plasmacytoid cells after 4 days of culture. Under the
influence of TPA, 86-97% of the cells expressed with time increasing amounts of
intracytoplasmic immunoglobulin (C-Ig) of the same phenotype as that detected on 
the surface (S-Ig) of fresh, non-induced CLL cells. A parallel decrease in both
monoclonal S-Ig density and DNA synthesis of the CLL cells was observed. Electron
microscopic studies showed a muturation towards plasma cells. We therefore
conclude that TPA is capable of inducing differentiation of CLL cells in vitro.


PMID: 7432517  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Nature. 1980 Nov 13;288(5787):174-6.

Structure of two adenovirus type 12 transforming polypeptides and their
evolutionary implications.

Perricaudet M, le Moullec JM, Tiollais P, Pettersson U.

The human adenoviruses are classified according to their nucleotide sequence
homology and their oncogenic potential in rodents. The left-hand end of the
genome of the adenovirus types 5 (ad5), 7 (ad7) and 12 (ad12), which are
respectively, non-oncogenic (subgroup C), weakly oncogenic (subgroup B) and
highly oncogenic (subgroup A), contains all the genetic information needed to
induce and maintain the transformed phenotype. This part of the genome contains
the early transcription unit designated E1 which is subdivided in two
transcription units E1A and E1B. Two spliced mRNAs are transcribed from the E1A
region which codes for several phosphorylated polypeptides. These polypeptides
play a key role by controlling the expression of the other early transcription
units. The major role of region E1A in adenovirus cell transformation might not
be activate the true transforming genes of the region E1B. An additional role
probably consists of the activation of some cellular genes as a restriction
fragment containing this region can immortalize rodent cells in vitro. An
important question is why some adenoviruses are oncogenic and others are not. We 
report here differences in the structures of the E1A polypeptides from ad7 and
ad12, compared to ad5, which may partially account for their differing
oncogenicity.


PMID: 7432516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Nature. 1980 Nov 13;288(5787):172-3.

X-chromosome inactivation in extra-embryonic membranes of diploid parthenogenetic
mouse embryos demonstrated by differential staining.

Rastan S, Kaufman MH, Handyside AH, Lyon MF.

In somatic cells of female mammals one of the two X chromosomes is genetically
inactive and heterochromatic, resulting in dosage compensation for X-linked
genes. In marsupials the paternally derived X chromosome is preferentially
inactivated. In eutherian mammals, although either X chromosome can be
inactivated at random in somatic cells, preferential inactivation of the
paternally derived X chromosome has been demonstrated cytologically in mouse and 
rat yolk sac and mouse chorion and biochemically in mouse yolk sac, chorionic
ectoderm and trophoblast. In mouse yolk sac the non-random element has been shown
both biochemically and cytologically to be confined to the endoderm layer in
which there is almost total paternal X-chromosome activity in the separated yolk 
sac layers of diploid parthenogenetic mouse embryos in which both X chromosomes
are maternally derived. Kaufman et al. have demonstrated X inactivation in
somatic cells of diploid parthenogenetic embryos, and we have used a modification
of Kanda's method, which renders the presumptive inactive X dark staining, to
reveal an inactive X chromosome in both endoderm and mesoderm layers of separated
yolk sacs from parthenogenones. Thus even in tissues in which there is normally
total non-random paternal X inactivation, in the absence of a paternally derived 
X chromosome a maternally derived X can be inactivated.


PMID: 7432515  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Nature. 1980 Nov 13;288(5787):166-7.

Reversible heat activation of alkaline phosphatase of dictyostelium discoideum
and its developmental implication.

Mohan Das DV, Weeks G.

The activities of some enzymes increase during the development of the cellular
slime mould, Dictyostelium discoideum. Because optimal specific activity is
attained by eachenzyme at a specific developmental stage, development can be
followed as a function of enzyme activity. The activity of one of these enzymes, 
alkaline phosphatase, increases markedly during the late stages of development,
making it a potentially useful marker for terminal differentiation. It has been
suggested that this increase in activity is due to de novo enzyme synthesis
because the increase in activity does not occur in the presence of inhibitors of 
RNA and protein synthesis. However, we present evidence here of reversible heat
activation of membrane-bound alkaline phosphatase which suggests that the
increase in alkaline phosphatase activity may be due to an unmasking of
pre-existing enzyme by a novel membrane regulatory mechanism.


PMID: 7432514  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Nature. 1980 Nov 13;288(5787):159-61.

The nature of inherited deafness in deafness mice.

Steel KP, Bock GR.

Many mouse mutants have an apparent deficiency in their responsiveness to sound. 
Most of these mutants have other abnormalities in addition to their hearing
deficit, and the only two which have been subjected to a detailed anatomical and 
physiological study, shaker-1 and Ames waltzer, also have motor abnormalities.
The existence of such motor abnormalities throws some doubt on the usefulness of 
these two mutants as possible models for hereditary deafness in man, which is
most frequently uncomplicated. Deol and Kocher have described the deafness
mutation in which mice homozygous for the recessive deafness gene (dn/dn) were
unresponsive to sound and had no significant behavioural abnormality. Cochlear
hair cells in deafness mice develop normally and then degenerate, and the adult
animals are completely deaf. We have now studied deafness mice in order to
determine the nature of their inherited deafness. Our data indicate that
stimulus-related cochlear potentials do not develop even though hair cells are
present in the young animal. The endocochlear potential is present in the scala
media, but behaves abnormally during anoxia.


PMID: 7432512  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Nature. 1980 Nov 13;288(5787):129-33.

Highly structured water network in crystals of a deoxydinucleoside---drug
complex.

Neidle S, Berman HM, Shieh HS.

X-ray diffraction analysis of crystals of the intercalative complex between the
deoxyribonucleoside phosphate d(CpG) and the mutagen proflavine shows a highly
structured arrangement of water molecules linked together by newtworks of
hydrogen bonds to form four edge-linked pentagons per asymmetric unit. These
pentagons have a general role in maximizing hydrogen bonding at 3.4-A intervals. 
The conformation of the deoxyribose sugar ring at the 3' end of one strand can
depend on its local aqueous environment.


PMID: 7432511  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Nature. 1980 Nov 13;288(5787):187-9.

L-leucine and a nonmetabolized analogue activate pancreatic islet glutamate
dehydrogenase.

Sener A, Malaisse WJ.

The release of insulin evoked by nutrients in the pancreatic beta-cell is
attributed to either the activation of a stereospecific receptor by the nutrient 
molecule itself or the generation of one or more signal(s) through the
intracellular metabolism of the nutrient secretagogue. The first of these
hypotheses is apparently supported by the fact the nonmetabolized amino acids,
especially the L-leucine analogue b(-)2-amino-bicyclo[2,2,1]heptane-2-carbocyclic
acid (BCH), stimulate insulin release. However, we now report evidence in support
of the second hypothesis. We present data consistent with the idea that BCH
induces insulin release through the allosteric activation of glutamate
dehydrogenase. This is compatible with the fuel hypothesis, which states that the
secretory response to nutrient secretagogues depends always on an increase of
catabolic fluxes in the islet cells.


PMID: 7001252  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Nature. 1980 Nov 13;288(5787):164-5.

Cross-reactivity for different type A influenza viruses of a cloned T-killer cell
line.

Lu LY, Askonas BA.

Spleen cytotoxic T cells killing influenza virus-infected target cells are
cross-reactive for the different type A influenza viruses, in contrast to the
circulating antibodies, which show fine specificity for each A virus subtype
variant. This finding has raised the question of whether a single T cell can
recognize cells infected with all type A viruses. T-killer cell lines with
specificity for alloantigens and the male Y antigen can be selected by means of
growth factors present in the supernatant of T cells stimulated with concanavalin
A (refs 3-7). We report here that we have been able to establish clones of mouse 
T cells killing target cells infected with influenza virus. Our cell line
maintains the same specificity as the heterogeneous spleen cell population from
infected mice, in as far as the T-killer cells are specific for A influenza
virus, but do not discriminate between the different type A viruses. The cell
line maintains H-2 restriction and does not kill cells infected with B influenza 
virus. The cells grow in the presence of T-cell growth factor and do not require 
antigen for growth although they maintain their receptors for type A virus. They 
can also be stimulated by irradiated T-helper cells from mice primed by type A
influenza infection in the presence of type A virus-infected cells.


PMID: 6968871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Nature. 1980 Nov 13;288(5787):183-5.

Vitamin E modulates the lipoxygenation of arachidonic acid in leukocytes.

Goetzl EJ.

The arachidonic acid released from cellular phospholipids of specifically
stimulated platelets and leukocytes is oxygenated enzymatically by two major
pathways. A complex cycloxygenase converts some of the free arachidonic acid to
labile endoperoxides that are transformed to prostaglandins, thromboxanes and
prostacyclin (PGI2). Lipoxygenases convert part of the arachidonic acid to
unstable hydroperoxy-eicosatetraenoic acids (OOHETEs) that are transformed to
monohydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids (HETEs), oligohydroxy-eicosatetraenoic or
-eicostatrienoic acids such as di-HETEs and tri-HETEs, and, in some instances,
more complex humoral mediators, including slow-reacting substances. Both the
nature of the HETEs and the ratio of the HETEs to the cyclo-oxygenase products
are specific characteristics of each type of cell. In human neutrophils, the sum 
of the lipoxygenase products 5-HETE, 11-HETE and 5,12-di-HETE substantially
exceeds the total amount of PGE2 and other cyclo-oxygenase metabolites that are
generated concurrently, and the endogenous lipoxygenase products regulate
neutrophil function. The present data indicate that vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol) 
bidirectionally modulates the activity of the lipoxygenase pathway of human
neutrophils in vitro. Normal plasma concentrations of alpha-tocopherol enhance
the lipoxygenation of arachidonic acid, whereas higher concentrations of
alpha-tocopherol exert a suppressive effect that is consistent with its role as a
hydroperoxide scavenger.


PMID: 6253824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Nature. 1980 Nov 13;288(5787):170-2.

Mutants of avian myelocytomatosis virus with smaller gag gene-related proteins
have an altered transforming ability.

Ramsay G, Graf T, Hayman MJ.

Avian myelocytomatosis virus strain MC29 is a replication-defective avian
oncovirus which in newborn chickens causes myelocytomatosis and liver and kidney 
tumours. In vitro infection of bone marrow cells gives rise to colonies of
transformed macrophage-like cells, and cloned viruses is also capable of
transforming fibroblasts. The genome of MC29 contains cellular sequences which
are closely related to those in other defective leukaemia viruses with similar
transforming spectra. Consequently, these cellular sequences have been postulated
to represent a new oncogene which has been designated mac, for macrophage
transformation. MC29-transformed cells contain a gag gene-related protein of a
110,000 molecular weight (MW) (p110), which by tryptic peptide analysis has been 
shown to be a fusion product comprised of a gag gene-derived sequences and
sequences which are presumed to be coded by the adjacent mac gene. These findings
suggest that this protein may be implicated in transformation by MC29. We now
describe three mutants of MC29 and synthesize smaller gag gene-related proteins. 
These mutants have an altered ability to transform bone marrow cells but not
fibroblasts. This demonstrates for the first time a direct involvement of the
p110 protein of MC29 in transformation.


PMID: 6253823  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Nature. 1980 Nov 13;288(5787):189-92.

Radioimmune, radiobinding and HPLC analysis of 2-5A and related oligonucleotides 
from intact cells.

Knight M, Cayley PJ, Silverman RH, Wreschner DH, Gilbert CS, Brown RE, Kerr IM.

The enzyme (2-5A synthetase) which synthesizes ppp(A2'p)nA where n=2 to 4
(collectively referred to as 2-5A) is widely distributed in a variety of cells
and tissues in amounts which increase response to interferon and vary with growth
and hormone status. 2-5A activates a nuclease which inhibits protein synthesis.
The non-phosphorylated 'core' of 2-5A ((A2'p)nA, n=2 to 4) can inhibit DNA
synthesis and cell growth. Here we describe convenient and sensitive radioimmune 
(RI) and radiobinding (RB) assays for core and 2-5A. In combination with more
satisfactory high performance liquid chromatography (HPCL) methods using
reverse-phase C18 columns, these assays have been used to detect core and 2-5A in
crude extracts from interferon-treated cells. The novel 2-5A synthetase products 
NAD2'p5' A2'p5'A and A5'p45'A2'p5'A2'p5'A (ref. 13), which can also be detected
using the RB assay, were not found in significant amounts. The natural occurrence
of core has not been described previously.


PMID: 6159552  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Nature. 1980 Nov 13;288(5787):167-70.

SV40 large T shares an antigenic determinant with a cellular protein of molecular
weight 68,000.

Lane DP, Hoeffler WK.

The large T protein coded by the early region of simian virus 40 (SV40) is
involved in the induction and maintenance of cell transformation. It is not clear
which properties of T are important in causing the transformation, since the
protein is multifunctional. To clarify the action of T proteins in
transformation, we have prepared several monoclonal antibodies directed against
different regions of the T molecule. One of these antibodies, DL 3C4, recognizes 
an antigenic determinant on T that is also present on a host cell protein of
molecular weight 68,000. This cross-reactive 68K protein is located within the
nucleus of all mammalian cell types examined and has a characteristic granular
distribution as shown by immunofluorescence. The antigenic determinant recognized
by DL 3C4 is resistant to denaturation. Studies on Adeno-SV40 hybrid viruses show
that the antigenic site on T is coded for by sequences located between 0.44 and
0.29 on the SV40 map.


PMID: 6159551  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Nature. 1980 Nov 13;288(5787):137-41.

Cloning and sequence analysis of cDNAs encoding two distinct somatostatin
precursors found in the endocrine pancreas of anglerfish.

Hobart P, Crawford R, Shen L, Pictet R, Rutter WJ.

Complementary DNAs for two distinct anglerfish somatostatin peptides (termed I
and II) have been cloned in bacterial plasmids and sequenced. The nucleotide
sequence for somatostatin I encodes a large percursor peptide (molecular weight
13,300) in which the somatostatin hormones is at the carboxyl terminus. The
predicted 14-amino acid sequence for anglerfish somatostatin I is the same as
mammalian somatostatin. Somatostatin II is also synthesized as part of a larger
precursor (molecular weight 14,100) with the presumptive somatostatin hormone
also at the carboxyl terminus. The 14-amino acid sequence of somatostatin II
differs from somatostatin I at two internal residues (Tyr in place of Phe 7 and
Gly in place of Thr 10). The two different somatostatins may have distinct
biological activities. Homologies in the amino acid sequences of the two peptides
outside the somatostatin moiety suggest other regions of the molecules have
biological functions.


PMID: 6107860  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Nature. 1980 Nov 6;288(5786):79-81.

Nonrandom segregation of nucleolar organizing chromosomes at mitosis?

Bobrow M, Heritage J.

The random assortment of non-homologous chromosomes at meiosis is one of the
fundamental tenets of genetics, to which few exceptions have been documented. The
segregation of mitotic chromatids is believed to be similarly random. We report
here that we seem to have discovered a new exception to this rule, in that
nucleolar organizing chromosomes remain associated with one another, held in the 
same lateral orientation, for several mitotic cycles.


PMID: 7432508  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Nature. 1980 Nov 6;288(5786):56-9.

Integration of visual and auditory space in the mammalian superior colliculus.

Harris LR, Blakemore C, Donaghy M.

Recordings of eye movements and single-neurone microelectrode recordings of the
superior colliculus in cats show that, for each saccadic movement, their eyes
start near to the centre of the orbit so that the coordinates of visual and
auditory space are aligned, and complex neural compensation of auditory or visual
inputs to the superior colliculus is unnecessary.


PMID: 7432507  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Nature. 1980 Nov 6;288(5786):100-2.

Transcriptional fidelity of histone genes injected into Xenopus oocyte nuclei.

Hentschel C, Probst E, Birnstiel ML.

Previous work has indicated that at least some of the genetic information
required for the expression of sea urchin histone genes is recognized following
injection of the gene repeat (h22) into Xenopus oocyte nuclei. The ability to
elicit the expression of cloned genes and their sequence-manipulated counterparts
is proving invaluable in analysing the molecular details of gene expression.
Direct injection of such genes into Xenopus oocyte nuclei remains one of the
simplest methods for obtaining such expression and a remarkable degree of
transcriptional fidelity has been demonstrated using this system with RNA
polymerase III genes, and to a lesser extent with rDNAs transcribed by RNA
polymerase I. In the case of polymerase II genes there is ample evidence for
coupled transcription-translation, but the degree of transcriptional fidelity
involved may, as has recently been shown for the ovalbumin gene, be minimal.
However, clearly if the oocyte is to be used to investigate transcriptional
regulation of such genes, transcriptional fidelity defined as the production of
correct RNA termii, rather than the production of 'functional mRNAs' (ref. 15),
must pertain. Here we demonstrate such fidelity in the expression of all five
Psammechinus miliaris histone genes comprising a repeat unit. However, we find
large quantitative variations in the levels of synthesis of the individual
correct termini and hence of the mRNAs. In addition to the mRNAs, species with no
detectable counterparts in the sea urchin are generated off the coding strand, as
are heterogeneous noncoding species.


PMID: 7432506  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Nature. 1980 Nov 6;288(5786):90-2.

Development of virus non-producer lymphosarcomas in pet cats exposed to FeLv.

Hardy WD Jr, McClelland AJ, Zuckerman EE, Snyder HW Jr, MacEwen EG, Francis D,
Essex M.

Naturally occurring oncoviruses of several species are transmitted contagiously
and cause lymphosarcoma (LSA) or leukaemia in their hosts. All naturally
occurring oncoviruses replicate in vivo in the tumours they induce or, as with
bovine leukaemia virus, can be isolated from tumour cells grown in short-term
cell culture. However, we have shown that feline leukemia virus (FeLV) is not
present in a significant minority of pet cats that develop LSA. Unlike
experimentally induced virus-negative leukaemias and sarcomas of other species,
LSA cells from FeLV-negative LSA cats lack any FeLV proteins, including p15 or
p12, and complete functional copies of FeLV provirus and thus do not produce FeLV
when grown in cell culture. Thus, except for FeLV, the naturally occurring animal
leukaemogenic oncoviruses seem to induce only virus-producing lymphoid tumours.
Our earlier findings prompted a study to determine the frequency of occurrence of
FeLV non-producer (NP) LSA in pet cats and whether NP LSAs develop in cats
exposed to FeLV. We report here epidemiological data which indicate that
development of NP LSAs in pet cats is associated with exposure to FeLV and
suggest that FeLV may be the aetiological agent for FeLV NP feline LSAs. Thus,
feline NP LSAs may be suitable for studying the potential viral aetiology and
mechanism of leukaemogenesis of human lymphoid tumours in which no oncoviruses
have, as yet, been proved to cause the disease.


PMID: 6253821  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Nature. 1980 Nov 6;288(5786):88-90.

Met-enkephalin-Arg6-Phe7, present in high amounts in brain of rat, cattle and
man, is an opioid agonist.

Rossier J, Audigier Y, Ling N, Cros J, Udenfriend S.

The enkephalins Met-enkephalin and Leu-enkephalin were first isolated from
porcine brain by Hughes and co-workers. We have recently isolated from bovine
adrenals another enkephalin with the structure Tyr-Gly-Gly-Phe-Met-Arg-Phe, or
Met-enkephalin-Arg6-Phe7 (ref. 2). We report here that this new heptapeptide is
found in human, rat and bovine striatum in concentrations comparable with or
greater than that of Leu-enkephalin. This molecule should not be considered as a 
mere precursor of Met-enkephalin. A pharmacological study indicates that this
naturally occurring enkephalin has similar properties to the two enkephalins
characterized earlier.


PMID: 6253820  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Nature. 1980 Nov 6;288(5786):84-6.

Different postsynaptic events in two types of retinal bipolar cell.

Ashmore JF, Copenhagen DR.

The first synapse in the vertebrate visual system is made between the
photoreceptors and the biopolar cells. Bioplar cells fall into two distinct
classes according to whether the cell hyperpolarizes or depolarizes to small
centred spots of light. Most evidence indicates that the light-induced
hyperpolarization of the photoreceptprs suppresses transmitter release from the
synaptic terminals, and it is probable that the differences between the two
bipolar cell classes results from the different actions of the photoreceptor
transmitter. In analysing the membrane potential fluctuations in both types of
bipolar cell we find that the voltage noise spectra differ. It is to be expected 
that postsynaptic noise would be composed of the sum of noise generated in and
transmitted from the cones and the noise arising from the statistical nature of
synaptic transmission. We report here evidence for two such components in the
voltage noise spectra recorded from each type of bipolar cell. The differences in
the frequency distribution of the presumed transmitter-related components
indicates that the transmitter generates events of longer duration in the
depolarizing biopolar cells.


PMID: 6253819  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Nature. 1980 Nov 6;288(5786):60-3.

Leaky +1 and -1 frameshift mutations at the same site in a yeast mitochondrial
gene.

Fox TD, Weiss-Brummer B.

Two mutations in a mitochondrial structural gene, which cause leaky premature
polypeptide chain termination and leaky growth, are +1 and -1 frameshifts in the 
same run of five T residues. The partial restoration of reading frame is probably
due to ribosomal frameshifting at this site, and may be promoted by the unique
structure of the yeast mitochondrial t RNAPhe.


PMID: 6253818  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


121. Nature. 1980 Nov 6;288(5786):98-100.

Interferon-dependent induction of mRNA activity for (2'-5')oligo-isoadenylate
synthetase.

Shulman L, Revel M.

At least three different enzymes involved in the regulation of protein synthesis 
are induced in a variety of cells by interferon (IFN). Sensitive assays for these
enzymes have been developed and used to establish the specificity, dose
dependence and time course of their induction by IFN. One of these enzymes, the
oligo-isoadenylate synthetase E, whose product (2'-5')pppApApA activates the
latent ribonuclease F, is increased over 50-fold after IFN treatment. We describe
here the assay for an mRNA from IFN-treated mouse L cells, that produces
oligo-isoadenylate synthetase activity when injected into Xenopus oocytes. This
mRNA is found in the cells only after exposure to IFN. The mRNA increases in
mouse L cells with the same time course as the enzyme activity itself. In
particular, there is a 3-h lag period between IFN addition and the onset of
enzyme and mRNA accumulation. Using anti-IFN antibodies, we show that during this
lag period the continued interaction of IFN with the cells is necessary for the
full induction of the oligo-isoadenylate synthetase.


PMID: 6159548  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Nature. 1980 Nov 6;288(5786):95-7.

Heterogeneity of poly(I) x poly(C)-induced human fibroblast interferon mRNA
species.

Sehgal PB, Sagar AD.

Three classes of human interferons (IFNs) have been defined on the basis of their
immunological properties: the 'Le' or 'alpha' IFN, mainly derived from leukocyte 
or lymphoblastoid cells; the 'F' or 'beta' IFN, mainly derived from fibroblast
cultures; and the 'T', 'immune' or 'gamma' IFN, mainly derived from mitogen- or
antigen-stimulated lymphoid cells. Whereas several individual species of Le IFN
have been purified to homogeneity, it is generally considered that F IFN
represents a single protein. Thus current efforts to clone human fibroblast IFN
mRNA sequences are based on the observation that F IFN mRNA sediments in sucrose 
gradients as a single RNA species of size corresponding to 12-14 S (refs 7-10).
We show here, using gel electrohporesis of mRNA, that two populations of
translationally active human fibroblast IFN mRNA molecules exist--an abundant '14
S' species and a scarce '11 S' species. Microinjection of either species of mRNA 
into Xenopus oocytes leads to the synthesis of biologically active F-type human
IFN. These data agree with and complement recent RNA hybridization studies of
Weissenbach et al.


PMID: 6159547  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Nature. 1980 Nov 6;288(5786):93-5.

Interferon inhibits transformation by murine sarcoma viruses before integration
of provirus.

Avery RJ, Norton JD, Jones JS, Burke DC, Morris AG.

Neoplastic transformation by C-type retroviruses requires synthesis of a DNA copy
(the provirus) of the RNA genome and its integration into the host cell DNA. We
have previously shown that interferon (IFN) can stably prevent transformation of 
murine fibroblasts by the Kirsten strain of murine sarcoma virus (KiMSV), a
murine leukaemia virus (MLV). A series of cell clones (IFN clones), isolated in
the presence of IFN (10(4) U ml-1) from cultures of NIH-3T3 cells which had been 
treated with IFN, and then infected with KiMSV (KiMLV) in conditions where every 
cell was infected, were shown to be phenotypically untransformed. These
untransformed cells did not produce virus or contain rescuable KiMSV. However,
cells isolated using an identical procedure, but in the absence of IFN, were
uniformly transformed and all produced KiMSV (KiMLV) or contained rescuable
KiMSV. It was concluded that IFN either prevents synthesis or integration of the 
provirus, or else that in the presence of IFN the provirus is integrated such
that it is not expressed. We now show that five representative clones contain no 
detectable KiMSV proviral DNA, and also that the initial stages of infection by
KiMSV (KiMLV) are inhibited by IFN treatment. IFN seems to act before
integration, preventing either the synthesis or the integration of proviral DNA.


PMID: 6159546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Nature. 1980 Nov 6;288(5786):86-8.

Somatostatin selectively inhibits noradrenaline release from hypothalamic
neurones.

Göthert M.

Somatostatin in a hypothalamic peptide hormone which inhibits growth hormone
release from the anterior pituitary. However, biochemical and morphological
investigations have revealed that somatostatin is located not only in the
hypothalamus but also in other brain areas (for example the cerebral cortex)
where it occurs and in nerve cell bodies and fibres from which it can be released
in a Ca2+-dependent manner. It has therefore been suggested that the neuropeptide
may have functions in the central nervous system other than its effect on growth 
hormone release; one possible action is that of a neuromodulator. Therefore,
hypothalamic and cerebral cortical slices of the rat were used to examine whether
somatostatin modifies the electrically or CaCl2-evoked release of tritiated
monoamines from monoaminergic neurones. it is reported here that somatostatin
inhibits 3H-noradrenaline release from the hypothalamus (but not from the
cerebral cortex) but does not affect the release of 3H-dopamine and 3H-serotonin.


PMID: 6107859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Nature. 1980 Oct 30;287(5785):871-2.

Chelation of cadmium with BAL and DTPA in rats.

Cherian MG.

Cadmium is unique among non-essential metals in several of its toxicological
effects because of its long biological half life, slow excretion and delayed
action on the kidneys. Although cadmium poisoning in humans is uncommon, there
are reports of chronic cadmium poisoning in workmen and also in others in certain
polluted areas. At present there are no suitable methods either to measure the
body burden of cadmium or to treat cadmium poisoning. The therapeutic effects of 
various chelating agents including 2,3-dimercaptopropanol (BAL) and its soluble
glycosides have been studied without much success in acute cadmium intoxication. 
However, those studies were done before anything was known of the specific
binding of cadmium to metallothionein, an intracellular low molecular weight
protein. The potential role of this protein in the detoxification and toxicity of
metals has been reviewed recently. The induced synthesis of metallothionein has a
marked effect on the pharmacokinetics of cadmium and other divalent metals. Thus 
it is important to consider the intracellular binding of cadmium with
metallothionein in developing a suitable chelation therapy for chronic exposure
to cadmium. The in vivo chelation of cadmium with BAL or BAL and
diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (DTPA) from rats exposed to cadmium is
reported here.


PMID: 7432504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Nature. 1980 Oct 30;287(5785):865-7.

Optical properties of single elastin fibres indicate random protein conformation.

Aaron BB, Gosline JM.

In describing the properties of fibrous proteins it has been common practice to
attribute the macroscopic mechanical properties to the organization at the
molecular level. Hence, the high tensile stiffness of collagen and silk has been 
viewed as an inevitable consequence of their crystalline structure. For elastin, 
however, there has been considerable controversy and confusion in assigning a
conformation to this rubber-like protein. The mechanical and thermodynamic
properties of elastin are consistent with the kinetic theory of rubber
elasticity, and this theory is based on an isotropic network of kinetically free,
random-coil molecules. In contrast, numerous electron microscope studies of
negatively stained elastins obtained by autoclave and alkali purification, as
well as coacervates of the various soluble elastins, reveal a highly ordered
(anisotropic) structure, consisting of 3- to 5-nm filaments that apparently run
parallel to the long axis of elastin fibres. These filaments have been accepted
as evidence for an anisotropic molecular structure in elastin that is
dramatically different from the random network of the kinetic theory. We have now
used polarized light microscopy to distinguish these two types of structure. We
find that both purified and unpurified, water-swollen, single elastin fibres are 
optically isotropic, in agreement with the predictions of the kinetic theory of
rubber elasticity.


PMID: 7432503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Nature. 1980 Oct 30;287(5785):863-5.

Ca2+-calmodulin-dependent phosphorylation and platelet secretion.

Nishikawa M, Tanaka T, Hidaka H.

Protein phosphorylation may play a critical role in stimulus-coupled secretion of
platelets. Some platelet proteins become phosphorylated on exposure to agents
such as thrombin and collagen, and the smallest of these phosphoproteins
(molecular weight 20,000), has been identified as a light chain of myosin.
Phosphorylation of myosin light chain increases the activity of actin-activated
myosin ATPase and the resultant contraction of the actomyosin presumably mediates
the release reaction. Platelet myosin light chain kinase has been identified as a
calcium-dependent enzyme requiring calmodulin for its activity. Calmodulin is a
Ca2+-binding protein with a molecular weight of approximately 18,000 which seems 
to be involved in a wide variety of cellular processes. Although a growing body
of evidence suggests that non-muscle actomyosin, such as that isolated from
platelets, is regulated by Ca2+-calmodulin-dependent light chain phosphorylation,
the precise relationship between the phosphorylation and the function of
platelets is not clearly established. We now present pharmacological evidence
that a calmodulin-mediated system, such as Ca2+-dependent myosin light chain
phosphorylation, also plays an important role in the phenomenon of the release
reaction. N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-napthalene-sulphonamide (W-7) (refs 13-15) 
is shown to bind selectively to calmodulin in vitro and inhibit its biological
activity.


PMID: 7432502  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Nature. 1980 Oct 30;287(5785):861-3.

Evidence for an adaptive DNA repair pathway in CHO and human skin fibroblast cell
lines.

Samson L, Schwartz JL.

When Escherichia coli is chronically exposed to very low, nontoxic doses of a
monofunctional alkylating agent (notably N-methyl-N'-nitro-nitrosoguanidine,
MNNG), the adaptive DNA repair pathway is induced which enables the bacteria to
resist the killing and mutagenic effects of further alkylation damage. Mutation
resistance in adapted bacteria is achieved, at least partly, by a greatly
increased capacity of the cells to eliminate the minor DNA alkylation product
O6-methyl-guanine, which has been strongly implicated as premutagenic and
precarcinogenic. We now show that the chronic treatment of a Chinese hamster
ovary (CHO) and a SV40-transformed human skin fibroblast (GM637) cell line with
non-toxic levels of MNNG renders the cells resistant to the induction of sister
chromatid exchange (SCE) by further alkylation damage. CHO cells also become
resistant to killing (GM637 cells have not yet been tested). Having ruled out
explanations such as changes in cell cycle distribution, mutagen permeability and
mutagen detoxification, we conclude that resistance is probably achieved by the
cells becoming more efficient at repairing alkylation damage, analogous to the
adaptive response of E. coli.


PMID: 7432501  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Nature. 1980 Oct 30;287(5785):850-2.

Cell movements in Xenopus eye development.

Holt C.

The vertebrate eye develops morphological markers, such as the ventral choroid
fissure, which define its anatomical polarity in relation to the body. Also,
retinal nerve fibres behave as though regionally differentiated by forming
ordered, topographical maps of the visual field in the brain. It has long been
held that these two features of eye polarity--its structure and the neural
specificity of the ganglion cells--are labile in the early eye vesicle and become
determined relative to body axes at a subsequent stage of development. Contrary
to these earlier findings, recent experiments show that the structure and
connectivity of the eye are already determined by the time it first appears as a 
distinct eye vesicle; surgical construction of eye pigmentation chimaeras
suggested that normal tectal maps, previously reported after early eye rotations,
may have arisen from neural retina cells recruited from the optic stalk after the
operation. In agreement, using a radioactive tag which marks neural retina as
well as pigment epithelium, I report here that during normal development in
Xenopus laevis, cells in the ventral retina, where the choroid fissure forms,
move into position from the optic stalk region during eye-cup formation.
Depending on developmental stage, surgical eye rotations may intercept their
movement and this provides a simple explanation of results previously taken to
indicate a change from a labile to a determined state of eye polarity.


PMID: 7432499  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Nature. 1980 Oct 30;287(5785):845-8.

Disruption of optic fibre growth following eye rotation in Xenopus laevis
embryos.

Grant P, Rubin E.

Eye rotation is an experimental paradigm used to study axial specification of the
amphibian retina and its connections to the tectum. Jacobson reported that the
naso-temporal and dorso-ventral axes are determined sequentially and
independently between Nieuwkoop-Faber (NF) stages 28 and 32 in Xenopus. Others
claim however, that both retinal axes are determined much earlier and not
independently in Xenopus and Rana. We now find that in Xenopus this operation can
disturb the exit of optic fibres from the retina with the severity of disruption 
depending on the time of surgery. Eyes rotated 180 degrees at NF stage 26-27,
before any fibres develop, form aberrant retinal fascicle patterns in which the
first optic fibres to differentiate (pioneer fibres), failing to exit from the
eye, are deflected into circling instead of radial trajectories. Optic fibres
appearing later follow these early misguided axons, creating circular bundles.
Eyes rotated later (NF 32-34), after optic fibres differentiate, develop normal
but inverted patterns because radial fascicles in the retina at the time of
operation accurately guide all newly arising fibres to the optic nerve head. This
stage-dependent sensitivity of retinal fascicle development must be considered
when interpreting the results of rotation experiments.


PMID: 7432498  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Nature. 1980 Oct 30;287(5785):843-5.

Parathyroid hormone stimulates bone resorption via a Na-Ca exchange mechanism.

Krieger NS, Tashjian AH Jr.

Parathyroid hormone (PTH) stimulates the release of calcium from bone and is
thought to initiate its action by a direct effect on the plasma membrane of bone 
cells. Although specific membrane receptors for PTH have not yet been identified 
in bone, they have been characterized in kidney, and PTH does stimulate
production of cyclic AMP in bone. However, the mechanism by which PTH causes the 
release of Ca from bone is not understood. We have determined that several agents
that alter ion transport across biological membranes inhibit PTH-stimulated bone 
resorption in vitro. These agents include ouabain, veratridine and certain
monovalent cation ionophores, which transport monovalent cations selectively. The
inhibition of bone resorption is dose dependent and reversible within the first
24 h of treatment. All these compounds would be expected to increase
intracellular sodium concentration in bone cells. Also, we find that decreasing
the extracellular Na+ concentration prevents PTH-stimulated resorption.
Therefore, we propose that PTH acts on bone to stimulate Ca release by means of a
Na-Ca exchange mechanism. Decreasing the Na gradient across the bone cell plasma 
membrane would prevent the Na-Ca exchange and thus inhibit the physiological
response to PTH.


PMID: 7432497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Nature. 1980 Oct 30;287(5785):841-3.

Embryogenesis in a Drosophila mutant expressing half the normal segment number.

Sander K, Lohs-Schardin M, Baumann M.

Insect segments are seriated developmental subunits whose borders largely control
intra-segmental patterning. The individual segment owes its specific character to
position-dependent instructions given to its early embryonic progenitor cells. In
Drosophila, the segment borders first become visible as a series of transverse
infoldings on the surface of the germ band. We describe here development in a
mutant (prdFR1) which forms half the normal number of transverse infoldings
spaced at twice the normal distance, thereby subdividing the germ band into a
series of giant domains (Fig. 1 a-c). Each domain develops the tracheal pits of
two normal segments (Fig. 1e), thus revealing its composite origin, but the larva
expresses only one segment border per domain and the cuticle between these
borders is similar to the normal segment in both size and zonation (Fig. 2). We
conclude that this course of development reflects a conflict between the seriated
instructions specifying local segment character (see Fig. 1b) and controlling
influences exerted by the abnormally spaced infoldings and later by the
definitive segment borders.


PMID: 7432496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Nature. 1980 Oct 30;287(5785):795-801.

Mutations affecting segment number and polarity in Drosophila.

Nüsslein-Volhard C, Wieschaus E.

In systematic searches for embryonic lethal mutants of Drosophila melanogaster we
have identified 15 loci which when mutated alter the segmental pattern of the
larva. These loci probably represent the majority of such genes in Drosophila.
The phenotypes of the mutant embryos indicate that the process of segmentation
involves at least three levels of spatial organization: the entire egg as
developmental unit, a repeat unit with the length of two segments, and the
individual segment.


PMID: 6776413  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Nature. 1980 Oct 30;287(5785):867-9.

Motile flagellar axonemes with a 9 + 1 microtubule configuration.

Marchese-Ragona S, Holwill ME.

Electron microscope (EM) studies of the eukaryotic flagellum reveal that the
organelle contains a 9 + 2 arrangement of microtubules, the axoneme, with nine
doublets surrounding two singlets enveloped by a membrane which is continuous
with that of the cell; various linkages and projections are associated with the
microtubules. Strong experimental evidence supports the idea that the forces
required for bend formation on eukaryotic flagella are derived from active
relative sliding of the peripheral doublets. Dynein arms, which project from each
peripheral microtubule and possess ATPase activity, interact with a neighbouring 
doublet and undergo conformational changes which induce sliding. To form and
propagate coordinated bends along a flagellum the sliding must be resisted in a
controlled manner by structures within the axoneme. The regulatory mechanism
responsible for the control of inter-doublet sliding is not known in detail, but 
ultrastructural studies suggest that interactions between the radial spokes
attached to each doublet and the central complex of the axoneme may be involved. 
We report here the treatment of flagella with a 9 + 2 microtubular structure from
the trypanosomid flagellate Crithidia oncopelti to produce motile axonemes with
only one central microtubule. We conclude that the complete central complex is
not involved in the conversion of microtubule sliding into axonemal bending, but 
may be both associated with the control of wave propagation and essential for
bend initiation.


PMID: 6448961  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Nature. 1980 Oct 30;287(5785):869-71.

Expression of a transposable antibiotic resistance element in Saccharomyces.

Jimenez A, Davies J.

Some eukaryotic genes can be expressed in bacteria but there are few examples of 
the expression of prokaryotic genes in eukaryotes. Antibiotic G418 is a
2-deoxystreptamine antibiotic that is structurally related to gentamicin but has 
inhibitory activity against a much wider variety of pro- and eukaryotic
organisms. In bacteria, resistance to G418 can be determined by several
plasmid-encoded modifiying enzymes and, in view of the broad spectrum of activity
of G418, we considered that this antibiotic might be useful as a selective agent 
for the introduction of these antibiotic resistance genes into a eukaryotic
organism such as Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Additional impetus for these
experiments came from the knowledge that certain of the G418-resistance
determinants in bacteria are carried on transposable elements; a study of the
properties of these elements in eukaryotes would be intriguing.


PMID: 6253817  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Nature. 1980 Oct 30;287(5785):857-9.

A G1 rate model accounts for cell-cycle kinetics attributed to 'transition
probability'.

Castor LN.

Smith and his colleagues have proposed that the duration of the cell cycle is
determined by a random transition, analogous to the random decay of a radioactive
nucleus, by which a cell passes from an 'A state' within the G1 phase to a 'B
phase' that includes the rest of the cycle. The experimental support for this
transition probability hypothesis is the tendency of a cumulative plot of
differences of cycle times of sibling cells (the beta curve) to be exponential ad
parallel to the exponential tail of a cumulative plot of the cycle times
themselves (the alpha curve). However, a close examination of four of the most
extensive sets of experimental data now suggests that the two beta curves with
the steepest slopes may not, in fact, be exponential. These and all the other
characteristics of the experimental curves are best matched by computer
simulations using a cell-cycle model that will be termed here a G1 rate model.
This model is consistent with differences in cell metabolism, rather than a
transition at an inherently unpredictable time, being the physiological basis for
differences in cycle times within a cell population.


PMID: 6159544  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Nature. 1980 Oct 30;287(5785):801-5.

Chemical synthesis of a polypeptide predicted from nucleotide sequence allows
detection of a new retroviral gene product.

Sutcliffe JG, Shinnick TM, Green N, Liu FT, Niman HL, Lerner RA.

We previously determined the nucleotide sequence of the 3' end of Moloney
leukaemia virus and discovered the potential coding region for an unknown
protein, R. We now show that this region does encode a protein. A
pentadecapeptide of R was chemically synthesized and antibodies raised against
it. Antisera to the synthetic peptide recognize the R protein and the env
precursor polyprotein in infected cells. The strategy presented here should
provide a general method for accessing proteins predicted by nucleotide
sequences.


PMID: 6159543  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Nature. 1980 Oct 30;287(5785):848-50.

Aspartate and glutamate as possible neurotransmitters of cells in layer 6 of the 
visual cortex.

Baughman RW, Gilbert CD.

Earlier work has suggested that aspartate, glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid 
(GABA) act as transmitters in the cerebral cortex. There is reasonable evidence
for the identity of the cell population responsible for GABA release but until
now there has been little evidence concerning the sources for release of
aspartate and glutamate. Here we have used two approaches to identify possible
neurotransmitters used by cells in the visual cortex: measurement of the efflux
of endogenous compounds in conditions of synaptic release and localization of
these compounds to particular cell classes using neurotransmitter-specific
histochemical techniques. Our results suggest that the acidic amino acids
aspartate and glutamate may be cortical neurotransmitters, as shown by
calcium-dependent release from endogenous stores and by uptake specific to
pyramidal cells in layer 6 of the cortex. These substances may therefore have a
role in the function of layer 6 cells, which are responsible for the recurrent
projection from the cortex to the lateral geniculate nucleus and for the
projection within the cortex from layer 6 to layer 4.


PMID: 6107858  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Nature. 1980 Oct 30;287(5785):781-7.

Hormone families: pancreatic hormones and homologous growth factors.

Blundell TL, Humbel RE.

The growing realization that biologically active polypeptides can be grouped in
families, the members of which show structural and functional relatedness, is
illustrated by the four families which are represented in the pancreas by the
hormones insulin, glucagon, somatostatin and pancreatic polypeptide.


PMID: 6107857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Nature. 1980 Oct 23;287(5784):755-8.

Crystal structure analysis of a complete turn of B-DNA.

Wing R, Drew H, Takano T, Broka C, Tanaka S, Itakura K, Dickerson RE.

DNA is probably the most discussed and least observed of all biological
macromolecules. Although its role in biology is a central one, with many examples
such as operators and restriction sites where specific base sequences have
control functions or interact with specific enzymes, the structures that DNA can 
adopt have been based until now only on sequence-averaged fibre diffraction
patterns. Recent improvements in triester synthesis methods have made possible
the preparation of sufficient homogeneous DNA of predetermined sequence for
crystallization and X-ray structure analysis. We report here the first
single-crystal structure analysis of more than a complete turn of right-handed
B-DNA, with the self-complementary dodecamer sequence d(CpGpCpGPApApTpTpCpGpCpG) 
or CGCGAATTCGCG.


PMID: 7432492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Nature. 1980 Oct 23;287(5784):745-7.

Unusual levels of (ADP-ribose)n and DNA synthesis in ataxia telangiectasia cells 
following gamma-ray irradiation.

Edwards MJ, Taylor AM.

Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase is a eukaryotic chromosomal enzyme which utilizes
the ADP-ribose moiety of NAD to synthesize the nucleic acid homopolymer
(ADP-ribose)n (ref. 1). The precise function of (ADP-ribose)n has not been fully 
established although it does covalently modify chromosomal proteins by
ADP-ribosylation. Here we demonstrate that gamma-ray irradiation of
lymphoblastoid cells from normal subjects results in depressed DNA synthesis and 
increased (ADP-ribose)n synthesis. Irradiation of lymphoblastoid cells from
patients with the autosomal recessive disease ataxia telangiectasia (AT),
however, failed to depress DNA synthesis and did not elevate (ADP-ribose)n
levels. We have confirmed that (ADP-ribose)n is synthesized in response to DNA
damage and we propose that this polymer may function in the recovery from DNA
damage by suppressing DNA synthesis.


PMID: 7432491  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Nature. 1980 Oct 23;287(5784):738-40.

Excretion, isolation and structure of a new phenolic constituent of female urine.

Stitch SR, Toumba JK, Groen MB, Funke CW, Leemhuis J, Vink J, Woods GF.

The regular occurrence of a peak due to an unidentified substance (X) in the gas 
chromatographic traces obtained from phenolic extracts of urine from human
pregnant and non-pregnant females has been reported. The biphasic excretion of X 
with maxima in the luteal phase of the ovulatory cycle and relatively high levels
in the first trimester of pregnancy were noteworthy and suggested that the
substance may have a biological significance. Close similarities between the
excretory pattern, the chemical and chromatographic properties of X and of those 
of the known phenolic steroids suggested initially that this compound was
steroidal in nature. The same, or a similar, substance seems to be excreted in
the vervet monkey (Cercopithecus aethiops pygerythrus). We now report the
excretory pattern of X in more detail, the isolation of the pure compound from
pooled pregnancy urine and the chemical structure. The structure determined by
mass spectrometry, IR spectroscopy and NMR spectrometry is:
trans-(+/-)-3,4-bis[(3-hydroxyphenyl)methyl]dihydro-2-(3H)-furanone (HPMF) and
was confirmed by synthesis.


PMID: 7432490  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Nature. 1980 Oct 23;287(5784):736-8.

Localization of metabolites in animals using 31P topical magnetic resonance.

Gordon RE, Hanley PE, Shaw D, Gadian DG, Radda GK, Styles P, Bore PJ, Chan L.

High-resolution phosphorous (31P)-NMR spectra of biological molecules provide
detailed information about the metabolism of living systems. Although the NMR
method is non-destructive, all studies so far, with two exceptions, have been
carried out on excised, perfused organs and tissues or have required some form of
surgery for in situ measurements. The use of 'surface' radiofrequency coils does 
not require surgery, but is best suited for tissues close to the surface of the
animals. We describe here 'topical magnetic resonance'--a new, non-surgical
method for acquiring 31P-NMR spectra from a selected, localized place deep within
an animal by modifying the main magnetic field, B0, using only static-field
gradients. The method is conceptually similar to one spin-imaging method but
primarily provides biochemical rather than spatial information. This new
technique can be used in fundamental investigations into living systems, clinical
diagnosis and the estimation of the efficacy of drug therapy.


PMID: 7432489  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Nature. 1980 Oct 23;287(5784):716-7.

Chemical alkylation of lead (II) salts to tetraalkyllead (IV) in aqueous
solution.

Ahmad I, Chau YK, Wong PT, Carty AJ, Taylor L.

Methylation of lead in the environment would have serious consequences for water 
quality and for the well being of aquatic biota. As there is strong evidence that
tetraalkylleads, the end products of lead alkylation, are considerably more toxic
than lead (II) compounds, the elevated levels of inorganic lead now present in
inland waterways and sediments as a result of industrial and motor vehicle
emissions will pose a serious environmental hazard if mechanisms exist for the
conversion to alkyllead (IV) species in aquatic systems. In the belief that the
key to biological Pb(II) methylation lies in methyl transfer to Pb(II) from a
carbonium ion donor (for example, S-adenosylmethionine), we recently initiated
chemical and biological studies on the reactions of CH3+ donors with neutral and 
anionic Pb(II) compounds. We describe here the unequivocal synthesis of volatile 
tetramethyllead and other tetraalkylleads from Pb(II) salts and simple chemical
reagents in aqueous solution. The known occurrence of methyl iodide in natural
waters and our demonstration that Me4Pb is readily synthesized from this reagent 
and Pb(II) salts in aqueous solution could have far reaching significance not
only for the chemical synthesis of toxic organoleads but also for possible
mechanisms of microbiological methylation.


PMID: 7432488  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Nature. 1980 Oct 23;287(5784):697-701.

Cell cycle and experimental pattern duplication in the chick wing during
embryonic development.

Cooke J, Summerbell D.

Transient stimulation of cell division within chick wingbud mesenchyme is
associated with the reorganization of limb pattern that follows insertion of a
small graft from the posterior zone of limb polarizing activity into the anterior
border of a host bud. This increase is initiated as an enhanced rate of entry to 
S phase, correlated with a decrease in packing density among mesenchyme cells,
through much of the limb rudiment a few hours after the operations.


PMID: 7432487  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Nature. 1980 Oct 23;287(5784):681-6.

Compound eyes: old and new optical mechanisms.

Land MF.

Over the last twenty years classical views of how compound eyes work optically
have undergone a series of overhauls. Exner's central concept of an optically
inhomogeneous lens cylinder has survived, and such devices are now made
commercially. He was wrong, however, about some crustacean eyes. They produce
images by a mirror mechanism that was not discovered until 1975, and which now
shows promise as an optical system capable of development.


PMID: 7001250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Nature. 1980 Oct 23;287(5784):747-9.

Defective DNA repair and increased lethality in ataxia telangiectasia cells
exposed to 4-nitroquinoline-1-oxide.

Smith PJ, Paterson MC.

Ataxia telangiectasia (AT) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder in man
characterized by progressive loss of muscular coordination (due to
neurodegeneration) and permanent dilation of the small blood vessels of the eyes 
and skin. AT patients also have repeated sinopulmonary infections, immune defects
associated with thymus underdevelopment, and abnormal endocrine functions.
Affected patients are at high risk of developing malignancy, particularly
lymphomas and lymphatic leukaemias, and there are clinical indications that AT
patients are hypersensitive to conventional radiotherapy administered for
treatment of malignancy. Cultured diploid fibroblasts from AT donors are
consistently hypersensitive to ionizing radiation, apparently due to defective
enzymatic repair of radiogenic DNA damage. We have determined the survival
responses and DNA repair abilities of AT cells exposed to
4-nitroquinoline-1-oxide (4NQO), a chemical carcinogen whose DNA-damaging
properties partially mimic those of ionizing radiation. We report here that
certain AT cell strains show hypersensitivity to inactivation by 4NQO and
defective repair of 4NQO-induced adducts in DNA.


PMID: 6776412  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Nature. 1980 Oct 23;287(5784):752-5.

The protein-coding sequence of the bovine ACTH-beta-LPH precursor gene is split
near the signal peptide region.

Nakanishi S, Teranishi Y, Noda M, Notake M, Watanabe Y, Kakidani H, Jingami H,
Numa S.

The pituitary hormones corticotropin (ACTH) and beta-lipotropin (beta-LPH) are
formed from a large common precursor. Recently, we have elucidated the whole
primary structure of the bovine ACTH-beta-LPH precursor (designated alternatively
as preproopiocortin) by determining the nucleotide sequence of cloned DNA
complementary to the mRNA coding for the precursor protein. The amino acid
sequence assigned has disclosed a characteristic repetitive structure of the
ACTH-beta-LPH precursor. The repetitive units of the precursor protein each
contain a melanotropin (MSH) sequence (alpha-, beta- or gamma-MSH) as well as
other peptide components such as beta-endorphin and corticotropin-like
intermediate lobe peptide (CLIP). The repetitive units as well as their peptide
components are each bounded by paired basic amino acid residues, which apparently
represent the sites of proteolytic processing. Several studies have confirmed the
translational initiation site and protein structure assigned (see also ref. 11
and refs therein). In view of the recent knowledge about the organization of
eukaryotic genes (see refs 12, 13 for reviews), it would be of particular
interest to investigate the relationship between the repetitive structure of the 
ACTH-beta-LPH precursor containing different functional components and the
arrangement of the protein-coding sequence in its gene. We have now isolated and 
characterized bovine genomic DNA fragments encoding this precursor protein and
have demonstrated that the protein sequence is encoded by two non-consecutive DNA
segments. An intron (intervening sequence) of approximately 2.2 kilobase pairs
separates the smaller exon (mRNA-coding sequence), which contains the gene
sequence encoding the signal peptide, from the larger exon, which contains the
gene sequence for most of the protein structure, including the known biologically
active component peptides.


PMID: 6253815  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Nature. 1980 Oct 23;287(5784):750-2.

Dimeric tRNA precursors in yeast.

Schmidt O, Mao J, Ogden R, Beckmann J, Sakano H, Abelson J, Söll D.

Two DNA fragments, each containing tRNA(Arg)3 and a tRNA(Asp) gene in close
conjunction, have been isolated from different genomic regions of Saccharomyces
cerevisiae. Nucleotide Nucleotide sequence analysis of the gene regions revealed 
that in both fragments the tRNA(Arg)3 coding region is located 5'-proximal to the
tRNA(Asp) coding region. They are separated by an identical spacer of 10
nucleotides. Although the 5'-flanking sequences are different in the two
plasmids, some similarities are observed. To test the mode of expression of this 
gene configuration, we transcribed the DNA fragments in a Xenopus oocyte nuclear 
extract. Specific transcription of the yeast tRNA genes took place in an RNA
precursor which comprised both tRNA species. We report here that the precursor
RNA was processed to the mature-sized tRNA molecules, indicating the presence of 
an enzyme activity in the Xenopus nucleus capable of cutting a dimeric tRNA
precursor. This is the first observation of a eukaryotic dimeric tRNA precursor.


PMID: 6253814  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Nature. 1980 Oct 23;287(5784):740-2.

Lignans in man and in animal species.

Setchell KD, Lawson AM, Mitchell FL, Adlercreutz H, Kirk DN, Axelson M.

In our laboratories, for several years, two phenolic compounds have been detected
during gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric analysis of urinary steroid
extracts from human and animal species. Although features of the mass spectra of 
their trimethylsilyl (TMS) ether derivatives resembled those of oestrogens, they 
were atypical of steroids. The possibility that they were artefacts of the
isolation procedures was discounted after careful studies with blanks, by varying
the extraction method and because they were present almost exclusively as
conjugates of glucuronic acid. Several of the general characteristics of the
unknown compounds were reported after one (referred to as compound 180/442) was
found to have a cyclic pattern of excretion during the menstrual cycle of an
adult vervet monkey (Fig. 1). An investigation of the nature and distribution of 
the compounds has shown them to be urinary constituents in humans, baboons,
vervet monkeys and rats, and further related compounds have been detected, so far
only in vervet monkey urine. We now report spectroscopic and chemical studies
that show the two original compounds to be lignans, which have a
2,3-dibenzylbutane skeleton as their basic structure. Unlike all previously known
natural lignans, invariably of plant origin, the two mammalian compounds carry
phenolic hydroxy groups only in the meta position of the aromatic rings.


PMID: 6253812  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Nature. 1980 Oct 23;287(5784):731-4.

Modulation of lateral geniculate neurone excitability by noradrenaline
microiontophoresis or locus coeruleus stimulation.

Rogawski MA, Aghajanian GK.

The dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGNd) receives afferents from the
brainstem which regulate its capacity to transmit visual information from the
retina to the striate cortex. One such pathway consists of noradrenaline
(NA)-containing fibres originating in the locus coeruleus (LC). These provide a
dense, uniform, noradrenergic innervation of the LGNd. Electrical stimulation in 
the LC region has been reported to enhance the responsiveness of LGNd neurones to
afferent excitation. Although this effect was abolished when brain NA stores were
pharmacologically depleted, it was not established as a direct action of NA on
LGNd neurones because of the widespread distribution of LC fibres to many parts
of the brain and the long latency of the response. Recently, we observed that NA,
applied locally by microiontophoresis with low ejection currents, produced a
delayed increase in the firing rate of most spontaneously active LGNd neurones,
an effect selectively blocked by alpha-adrenoceptor antagonists. We show here
that microiontophoretic NA can mimic the ability of LC stimulation to enhance the
synaptic excitation of LGNd neurones. As neither NA nor LC stimulation activated 
LGNd neurones in the absence of synaptic or glutamate-induced excitation, both
appear to act through a neuromodulatory mechanism. The postsynaptic
alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist WB-4101 blocks the facilitation produced by locally
applied NA and by coeruleo-geniculate pathway stimulation, providing evidence for
pharmacological identity of the two effects.


PMID: 6253811  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Nature. 1980 Oct 23;287(5784):686-91.

Guanine nucleotide-binding and autophosphorylating activities associated with the
p21src protein of Harvey murine sarcoma virus.

Shih TY, Papageorge AG, Stokes PE, Weeks MO, Scolnick EM.

The purified p21src protein of Harvey sarcoma virus shows a guanine
nucleotide-binding activity and, in addition, at elevated temperature an
autophosphorylating activity at a threonine residue using as phosphoryl donor GTP
or dGTP but not ATP or dATP. These biochemical activities are unique among those 
associated with transforming proteins of RNA-containing or DNA-containing tumour 
viruses.


PMID: 6253810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Nature. 1980 Oct 23;287(5784):734-6.

ATP mediates rapid reversal of cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase activation in visual 
receptor membranes.

Liebman PA, Pugh EN Jr.

Weak or strong lights will activate visual receptor rod disk membrane (RDM)
cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase (PDE) in the presence of GTP cofactor. A similarly
activated GTPase can exhaust small amounts of initially present GTP to deactivate
the PDE. However, further additions of GTP reactivate PDE without more light, and
deactivation by simple GTP depletion takes minutes or more, even at GTP
concentrations 100 to 1,000 times lower than physiological levels. A more rapid
deactivation mechanism must exist if modulation of cytoplasmic cyclic GMP by
light is to play a role on the time scale (seconds) of events in vision. We
report here that ATP is essential to such rapid control and that its presence
permits multiple cycles of activation-deactivation. The complete control
mechanism seems to involve gamma phosphate transfer from both ATP and GTP.


PMID: 6107856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Nature. 1980 Oct 16;287(5783):640-2.

Phenypressin (Phe2-Arg8-vasopressin), a new neurohypophysial peptide found in
marsupials.

Chauvet MT, Hurpet D, Chauvet J, Acher R.

Recent investigations on marsupial neurohypophysial hormones have revealed that
species belonging to the Australian family Macropodidae and the American family
Didelphidae have, apart from an oxytocin-like hormone, two vasopressin-like
peptides which can be separated either by ion-exchange chromatography or
chromatoelectrophoresis. The major pressor hormone of two Australian species, the
red kangaroo (Macropus rufus) and the tammar (Macropus eugenii), has been
identified as lysine vasopressin by its amino acid sequence anda its
pharmacological properties. We report here that the minor pressor hormone, which 
chromatographs on Amberlite CG-50 like arginine vasopressin, differs from it in
sequence only at position 2 where phenylalanine replaces the tyrosine of arginine
vasopressin.


PMID: 7432483  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Nature. 1980 Oct 16;287(5783):635-7.

Complete reversal of antero-posterior polarity in a centrifuged insect embryo.

Rau KG, Kalthoff K.

Spatial pattern formation during embryogenesis is ascribed to differential gene
expression, which in turn is thought to result in part from interactions of
nuclei with cytoplasmic determinants. In the chironomid midge Smittia, and
probably in other dipterans as well, blastoderm cells seem to make an early
decision as to whether they contribute to cephalic and thoracic or to abdominal
(and possibly thoracic) structures. Inactivation or translocation of cytoplasmic 
components involved in this antero-posterior decision could conceivably lead to
duplications of head and thorax, or abdomen, or to complete but inverted embryos 
forming the head posteriorly and the abdomen anteriorly in the egg. Whereas the
former two malformations have been described, completely inverted embryos are
reported for the first time, to our knowledge, in this letter. Reversal of
partial germ bands has previously been observed following combined ligation and
cytoplasmic translocation in eggs of the leaf hopper, Euscelis plebejus.


PMID: 7432482  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Nature. 1980 Oct 16;287(5783):607-12.

Phorbol esters and vasopressin stimulate DNA synthesis by a common mechanism.

Dicker P, Rozengurt E.

The potent tumour promoter 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) acts
synergistically with all known mitogens to induce DNA synthesis in 3T3 cells. In 
contrast, the neurohypophyseal hormone vasopressin, which is mitogenic for 3T3
cells, fails to synergize with TPA to stimulate DNA synthesis, ornithine
decarboxylase activity or 2-deoxyglucose uptake. Thus TPA acts through a pathway 
which converges with that used by vasopressin, and at least some of its
biological effects occur through mechanisms normally utilized by specific
hormones.


PMID: 7432481  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Nature. 1980 Oct 16;287(5783):595-9.

X-ray kinetic studies of microtubule assembly using synchrotron radiation.

Mandelkow EM, Harmsen A, Mandelkow E, Bordas J.

The assembly of microtubules has been investigated by time-resolved X-ray
diffraction using synchrotron radiation. The small-angle scattering becomes
visible within seconds and thus enables study of the structural transitions of
the protein aggregates during assembly from their subunits in solution. The X-ray
pattern at 4 degrees C arises from a mixture of tubulin rings, dimers and some
other species. Raising the temperature to 36 degrees C induces the breakdown of
rings, followed by the growth of microtubules. The results suggest that
microtubules may be formed from tubulin oligomers smaller than rings.


PMID: 7432480  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Nature. 1980 Oct 16;287(5783):637-9.

Cytochalasin D does not produce net depolymerization of actin filaments in HEp-2 
cells.

Morris A, Tannenbaum J.

The altered morphology, disappearance or 'disruption' of actin filaments
(microfilaments) in cells treated with cytochalasin has sometimes been attributed
to depolymerization of filamentous actin (F-actin) to its globular subunit
(G-actin), but attempts to confirm that mechanism have been inconclusive.
Treatment of purified actin filaments with cytochalasin B (CB) decreased their
viscosity, consistent with depolymerization, which was not, however, revealed by 
electron microscopy, although the filaments appeared abnormal. CB also increased 
the ATP-ase activity of F-actin, suggesting that it had been destabilized, while 
actin filaments in the acrosomal process were not depolymerized. CB or
cytochalasin D (CD) can dissolve actin gels (reviewed in ref. 7, see also refs 8 
and 9) without depolymerizing their filaments. The 'disrupted' actin structures
in CD-treated cells bound heavy meromysin, indicating that at least some of the
cellular actin was filamentous. Using a rapid assay for G- and F-actin in cell
extracts, based on the inhibition of DNase I, we have found that neither
short-nor long-term exposure of HEp-2 cells to CD produce net depolymerization of
actin filaments.


PMID: 6893622  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Nature. 1980 Oct 16;287(5783):603-7.

Functional and non-functional joining in immunoglobulin light chain genes of a
mouse myeloma.

Altenburger W, Steinmetz M, Zachau HG.

Leader, variable (V) and joining (J) gene segments, and adjacent regions of two
rearranged alleles of the same kappa-chain producing mouse myeloma, comprising
approximately 3,200 base pairs, have been sequenced. Sequence comparisons are
reported. V-J joining in one of the alleles leads to a reading frame with a stop 
codon within the J-gene segments. Allelic exclusion is apparently realized in
this tumour through the formation of such a non-functional allele.


PMID: 6776411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Nature. 1980 Oct 16;287(5783):659-60.

Internal mobility of ferrocytochrome c.

Northrup SH, Pear MR, McCammon JA, Karplus M, Takano T.

In the refinement of the X-ray diffraction structures of molecules, it is
conventional to introduce atomic 'temperature factors' of the Debye-Waller form
to characterize the widths of the electron density peaks corresponding to the
atoms. Although these factors are known to include a variety of contributions
other than thermal fluctuations of the atomic positions, recent progress in the
refinement of protein structures has led to inferences concerning atomic
mobilities from the temperature factor data for several proteins. Atomic position
fluctuations can be calculated independently by the molecular dynamics method, in
which the classical equations of motion for the atoms of an equilibrated protein 
are solved on a computer. We now show that the X-ray diffraction and dynamical
simulation methods yield similar pictures of the atomic mobility in tuna
ferrocytochrome c.


PMID: 6253809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Nature. 1980 Oct 16;287(5783):656-9.

Transforming genes of neoplasms induced by avian lymphoid leukosis viruses.

Cooper GM, Neiman PE.

Oncogenic avian retroviruses can be classified into three groups: sarcoma
viruses, acute leukaemia viruses and lymphoid leukosis viruses (LLVs). Sarcoma
and acute leukaemia viruses transform fibroblasts and/or haematopoietic cells in 
culture and induce tumours with short latent periods in infected birds. In
contrast, LLVs do not transform cells in vitro and require long latent periods
before formation of neoplasms in vivo. The most frequent neoplasm induced by LLVs
is malignant lymphoma of the bursa of Fabricius, but LLVs also induce other
neoplasms, including sarcomas, nephroblastomas and erythroblastosis. The genomes 
of both sarcoma and acute leukaemai viruses contain specific genes responsible
for viral oncogenicity, whereas the genome of LLVs apparently includes only genes
required for virus replication. The genetic basis for the low oncogenic potential
of LLVs is therefore obscure. The present experiments indicate that LLV-induced
tumours contain transforming genes that can be detected by transfection of NH 3T3
mouse cells. These transforming genes are not linked to LLV DNA sequences,
suggesting that oncogenesis by LLVs may result from indirect activation of
cellular transforming genes.


PMID: 6253808  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Nature. 1980 Oct 16;287(5783):653-4.

Unifected avian cells contain structurally unrelated progenitors of viral sarcoma
genes.

Yoshida M, Kawai S, Toyoshima K.

A single gene, src of Rous sarcoma virus (RSV) coding for a protein of pp60src,
is responsible for the transformation of fibroblasts. DNA sequences homologous to
src (the endogenous sarc) are presented in uninfected cells of chickens and other
vertebrates. Endogenous nucleotide sequences have also been found in the putative
transforming genes of MC29 (ref. 6) and avian erythroblastosis virus. These
viruses, however, induce different spectra of tumours in animals. From analysis
of a new avian sarcoma virus, Y73, we present here evidence suggesting that
multiforms of viral sarcoma genes originated from cellular genetic sequences, and
that these viral genes are structurally unrelated, but have similar
pathogenicities.


PMID: 6253807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Nature. 1980 Oct 16;287(5783):651-2.

Benzodiazepine recognition sites on GABA receptors.

Gavish M, Snyder SH.

A role of gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA) in benzodiazepine actions is supported 
by the GABA stimulation of membrane-bound and soluble benzodiazepine receptors
and preliminary evidence that GABA protects benzodiazepine receptors from heat
inactivation. We show here that the GABA receptors labelled by by 3H-muscimol
possess a benzodiazepine recognition site, as benzodiazepines, in proportion to
their pharmacological activity, protect 3H-muscimol binding from inactivation by 
heat and the protein modifying reagent iodoacetamide. We also show that
benzodiazepines and GABA act at apparently distinct sites to protect
benzodiazepine receptors from heat and iodoacetamide.


PMID: 6253806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Nature. 1980 Oct 16;287(5783):642-3.

HCG stimulation of testicular LHRH-like activity.

Sharpe RM, Fraser HM.

It is well established that the administration of high doses of luteinizing
hormone (LH) or human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) to animals can impair gonadal 
function in both the male and female. These effects can be duplicated by the
administration of LH releasing hormone (LHRH) or its agonists to intact animals, 
including man. Somewhat surprisingly, recent results have demonstrated that
similar impairment of gonadal function by LHRH and its agonists can be achieved
in the absence of the pituitary (for review see ref. 7), and the demonstration of
specific, high-affinity binding sites for LHRH and its agonists on ovarian luteal
cells and on testicular Leydig cells, could mean that LHRH-like factors are
involved in the local regulation of the gonads. A further intriguing finding is
the striking similarity between the direct, inhibitory effects of LHRH and LH/HCG
on the gonads; for example, both treatments reduce LH receptor numbers and the
steroidogenic responsiveness of rat Leydig cells. We now offer a possible
explanation for this similarity by demonstrating that HCG treatment stimulates
the testicular production of a biologically active LHRH-like factor, suggesting
that the inhibitory actions of HCG on the Leydig cell may be mediated by the
local production of this factor.


PMID: 6253804  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Nature. 1980 Oct 16;287(5783):600-3.

Protein-linked RNA of poliovirus is competent to form an initiation complex of
translation in vitro.

Golini F, Semler BL, Dorner AJ, Wimmer E.

Poliovirus RNA that had been labelled with 125I in the 5'-terminal protein (VPg) 
was found competent to form an initiation complex of translation in a cell-free
reticulocyte lysate. In conditions of ribosome binding, no cleavage occurred
between VPg and RNA. We conclude that removal of VPg from poliovirus RNA is not a
prerequisite for this RNA to initiate translation in vitro.


PMID: 6253803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Nature. 1980 Oct 16;287(5783):649-51.

Transmitter release from frog motor nerve terminals depends on motor unit size.

Herrera AA, Grinnell AD.

It has been postulated that the success with which a motor nerve terminal
competes for synaptic connections or the ability of an axon to maintain sprouts
may depend on the support each terminal receives from its coma, presumably in the
form of some substance(s) synthesized there. The support received by each
terminal may in turn depend on the total number of terminals maintained by that
soma, namely, motor unit size. We show here that when motor unit size is
experimentally decreased, transmitter release from the terminals is markedly
enhanced. This is consistent with the view that the extent of support from the
soma may also influence the effectiveness of synaptic transmission.


PMID: 6159542  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Nature. 1980 Oct 16;287(5783):647-9.

Retrograde axonal transport of target tissue-derived macromolecules.

Hendry IA, Hill CE.

Neurones depend on contact with their target tissues for survival and subsequent 
development. The protein, nerve growth factor (NGF), can be selectively taken up 
by sympathetic nerve terminals and reaches the neuronal perikaryon by a process
of retrograde intra-axonal transport, suggesting that its role in vivo is to act 
as a target tissue-derived trophic factor. The development of the neurones of the
chick ciliary ganglion requires the presence of structures derived from the optic
cup. Several studies in vitro have shown that media conditioned by non-neuronal
cells contain factors that result in the survival of neurones from ciliary
ganglia. In particular, chick embryo iris, ciliary body and choroid contained
large amounts of these factors indicating the presence of a target tissue-derived
trophic factor for the cholinergic ciliary ganglion. This study demonstrates that
neurones of the ciliary ganglion accumulate, by retrograde intra-axonal
transport, proteins synthesized and released by optic tissues in culture.


PMID: 6159541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Nature. 1980 Oct 16;287(5783):639-40.

Lack of heterogeneity in antihapten antibodies of a phylogenetically primitive
shark.

Mäkelä O, Litman GW.

Individual mammals have the capacity to express at least one million distinct
antigen binding specificities, implying a high degree of structural heterogeneity
in the variable heavy and light chain (VH and VL) portions of the antibody
molecules. Studies of higher vertebrate species suggest that this heterogeneity
is created both through a sizeable repertoire of germ-line VH and VL genes and
through random rearrangements of V and joining genes. Additional somatic
mechanisms probably also contribute to the ultimate heterogeneity; one-third of
murine plasmacytomas producing lambda 1 immunoglobulin carry a somatically
mutated Ig1-V gene. The relative contributions of these various mechanisms to the
overall imunoglobulin variability are difficult to evaluate. The production of
different antibodies to a defined determinant in different individuals of an
inbred mouse strain [for example, (3-iodo-4-hydroxy-5-nitrophenyl) acetyl (NIP)
in CBA mice] suggests the involvement of somatic mutations or rearrangement but
does not rule out the possibility that each individual CBA mouse expresses only a
small random fraction from a large germ-line repertoire of V genes determining
different anti-NIP binding sites. The opposite finding, that different
individuals produce nearly identical antibodies to a defined determinant, would
suggest the presence and expression of a limited number of germ-line genes
without somatic alterations. Data presented here suggest that primitive sharks
(Heterodontus fransisci) produce such antibodies to the hapten furyloxazolone.


PMID: 6159540  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Nature. 1980 Oct 16;287(5783):645-7.

Are only alpha 2-adrenergic receptors present in bovine retina?

Bittiger H, Heid J, Wigger N.

The retina represents a part of the central nervous system (CNS) with a well
studied, geometrically defined structure and a specialized function--the
processing of light signals. Neurotransmitters such as glutamate, aspartate,
glycine, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), dopamine and acetylcholine are
considered to be involved in the neuronal activity of the retina. Receptors for
acetylcholine, GABA, dopamine and benzodiazepines have also been demonstrated.
Thus, the retina can be considered as a model for the study of neuronal
processing in general, in which the input, light signals, can be selected and
regulated in a defined way. We report here that alpha-adrenergic receptors in the
bovine retina have been characterized using radioreceptor assays. 3H-phentolamine
(an alpha 1- and alpha 2-antagonist), 3H-clonidine (a preferential alpha
2-agonist) and 3H-WB 4101
[(2,6-dimethoxyphenoxyethyl)aminomethyl-1,4-benzodioxane, an alpha 1-antagonist] 
were used as radioligands, and WB 4101 and prazosin (alpha 1-antagonists),
tolazine (an alpha 2-antagonist), yohimbine and its stereoisomers rauwolscine
(preference for alpha 2-receptors) and corynanthine (preference for alpha
1-receptors), were used as inhibitors of radioaligand binding. Only alpha
2-adrenergic receptors were found.


PMID: 6107855  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Nature. 1980 Oct 9;287(5782):558-60.

Dual ionic controls for the activation of protein synthesis at fertilization.

Winkler MM, Steinhardt RA, Grainger JL, Minning L.

The general metabolic activation of the sea urchin egg at fertilization is
dependent on a release of intracellular stores of calcium and the subsequent
transient elevation of intracellular Ca2+ (refs 1--3). However, this elevation
does not by itself lead to increased macromolecular synthesis and development but
initiates steps which result in a long-term elevation of intracellular pH (refs
4--6). Among the developmental processes dependent on the elevation of
intracellular pH is the large acceleration in the rate of protein synthesis at
fertilization. Weak penetrating bases such as ammonia can be used to mimic the
processes resulting in an increase in intracellular pH and so show the
corresponding increases in protein synthesis rate. Conversely, it is possible to 
demonstrate a gradual but complete shut down of protein synthesis if the
intracellular pH is reduced to the unfertilized level with penetrating weak
acids. However, the rate of protein synthesis in ammonia-activated eggs lags
behind that of fertilized controls even though ammonia activation can result in
an intracellular pH increase greater than occurs in the fertilized egg. This
result has led to the suggestion that factors other than intracellular pH may be 
regulating protein synthesis following fertilization. To investigate the
possibility that the Ca2+ transient may have such a role, we measured the rate of
amino acid incorporation in eggs that were activated in various ionic conditions 
which enabled the effects of Ca2+ and pH changes to be studied separately. Our
results, reported here, show that if intracellular pH is elevated, increases in
intracellular Ca2+ play an additional part in the activation of protein synthesis
at fertilization.


PMID: 7422008  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Nature. 1980 Oct 9;287(5782):555-8.

A neuropeptide in mammalian tissues with physalaemin-like immunoreactivity.

Lazarus LH, Linnoila RI, Hernandez O, DiAugustine RP.

Erspamer et al. isolated several structurally related non-mammalian peptides,
termed tachykinins, with biological activities similar to substance P (refs 2,
3). This similarity is due to a common COOH-terminal region, whereas the specific
action of each member of the group depends on its unique NH2-terminal sequence.
Based on these properties, parallel bioassays using numerous smooth muscle
preparations and physiological parameters allow them to be generally
distinguished. However bioassays are time consuming and not highly specific.
Thus, we developed a rapid physalaemin-specific radioimmunoassay that led to the 
initial discovery of a substance in mammalian tissues with an immunoreactivity
resembling that of the original amphibian peptide. We now present data on the
distribution, localization and partial characterization of physalaemin-like
immunoreactivity (PSLI) in tissues of several mammalian species.


PMID: 7422007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Nature. 1980 Oct 9;287(5782):546-8.

Intercellular communication patterns are involved in cell determination in early 
molluscan development.

de Laat SW, Tertoolen LG, Dorresteijn AW, van den Biggelaar JA.

The formation of specialized intercellular junctions, allowing the passage of
low-molecular weight regulatory molecules, has been considered as a possible
mechanism for regulating embryonic development. No direct evidence for this
concept has been found in early development. In the mollusc Pattella vulgata it
was demonstrated that cell positioning and specific cellular interactions are key
factors in the control of early development. We have now investigated the pattern
of intercellular communication during early development of this embryo by
intracellular iontophoresis of the fluorescent dye Lucifer Yellow CH. We
demonstrate that the formation of regional- and temporal-specific cell-to-cell
coupling is correlated with the determination of the mesentoblast--the stem cell 
of the mesoderm--and the establishment of dorso-ventral polarity.


PMID: 7422006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Nature. 1980 Oct 9;287(5782):538-40.

Changing proteins on the surface of a parasitic nematode.

Philipp M, Parkhouse RM, Ogilvie BM.

Most of the organisms of the phylum Nematoda are free living, but some are animal
or plant parasites of major importance to man. During their life cycle all
nematodes undergo a series of moults in which they shed an external cuticle,
consisting of an outermost membrane-like layer of unknown composition and a
series of fibrillar layers similar to collagens. Because of this structure, the
cuticle has been viewed as an acellular exoskeleton with rather inert molecular
components. However, observations have shown that it contains enzymes and
sometimes haemoglobin, and that nutrients are absorbed through it in the
infective larvae and adut stages of Brugia pahangi. It is bound by complement and
antibody, resulting in the adherence of leukocytes, and antibody-dependent
cell-mediated reactions damage the cuticle of newborn larvae of Trichinella
spiralis and the microfilariae of Dipetalonema viteae and Litomosoides carinii.
We report here that the surface of the cuticle of the parasitic nematode
Trichinella spiralis expresses protein molecules which change qualitatively
following the moulting process, and quantitatively during growth of the worms
within one stage. Also, surface proteins are released in vitro at a rate which
depends on the conditions of culture of the worms.


PMID: 7422005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Nature. 1980 Oct 9;287(5782):536-8.

Evidence for diploidy and mating in trypanosomes.

Tait A.

The question of whether any sexual process takes place at some stage of the life 
cycle of the trypanosome has often been raised and crosses between different
drug-resistant strains have provided no convincing answer. Multinucleate forms of
trypanosomes have been observed by electron microscopy but their significance and
origin remain obscure. As part of a study aimed at examining the speciation and
genetics of the Trypanosoma brucei complex of trypanosomes, a series of isolates 
from a population of T.b. brucei have been screened for electrophoretic variation
in 19 enzymes. The results of this survey, reported here, provide strong evidence
that trypanosomes are diploid and undergo random mating and recombination.


PMID: 7422004  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Nature. 1980 Oct 9;287(5782):509-16.

A low resolution structure for the histone core of the nucleosome.

Klug A, Rhodes D, Smith J, Finch JT, Thomas JO.

Image reconstruction to 22 A resolution of the histone octamer
(H3)2(H4)2(H2A)2(H2B)2 shows it to have a 2-fold axis of symmetry, and the
overall shape of the left-handed helical spool on which to wind about two turns
of a flat superhelix of DNA in the nucleosome. From this structure and the
results of various cross-linking studies, we have deduced the arrangement of the 
individual histones. We propose that the (H3)2(H4)2 tetramer forms a dislocated
disk which defines the central turn of DNA, while the two H2A-H2B dimers lie one 
on each face, each associated with about one half a turn.


PMID: 7422003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Nature. 1980 Oct 9;287(5782):561-3.

Visualization of an unwound DNA duplex.

Arnott S, Bond PJ, Chandrasekaran R.

Certain dyes and drugs with planar aromatic components can intercalate these into
stacks of base pairs and thereby bind tightly to DNA duplexes. Intercalation at
one site usually precludes intercalation between the base pairs immediately
adjacent. This exclusion implies that two distinct nucleoside conformations are
needed in the dinucleoside phosphates which include the intercalation site. The
simplest distinction would involve no more than quantitative differences in the
(usually anti) conformations at the glycosidic bonds. This could be reinforced by
additional, qualitative differences in the furanose ring puckerings (C-2'-endo
and C-3'-endo). For the most pronounced difference there could be qualitative
differences (syn and anti) in the conformations of the glycosidic bonds as well
as in the conformations of the sugar rings. The model discussed here is an
example of this most emphatic distinctiveness, as the nucleosides at the 5' ends 
of the intercalation sites are C-3'-endo and syn and at the 3' ends are C-2'-endo
and anti. X-ray diffraction analysis suggests that a completely unwound allomorph
of the DNA duplex can persist in oriented fibres when stabilized by certain
platinum-containing intercalators. In the untwisting of (usually) right-handed
DNA double helices, unwound duplexes are presumably fleeting intermediates.


PMID: 7191477  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Nature. 1980 Oct 9;287(5782):560-1.

Mutagenic deamination of cytosine residues in DNA.

Duncan BK, Miller JH.

Spontaneous deamination converts cytosine to uracil, which is excised from DNA by
the enzyme uracil-DNA glycosylase, leading to error-free repair. 5-Methylcytosine
residues are deaminated to thymine, which cannot be excised and repaired by this 
system. As a result, 5-methylcytosine residues are hotspots for spontaneous
transitions, as demonstrated in the lacI gene of Escherichia coli. We show here
that in bacteria which lack uracil-DNA glycosylase (Ung-) and cannot excise
uracil residues from DNA, the rate of spontaneous transition at cytosine residues
is raised to the hotspot rate at 5-methylcytosine residues. These studies provide
direct evidence that the deamination of cytosine is a significant source of
spontaneous mutations.


PMID: 6999365  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Nature. 1980 Oct 9;287(5782):504-9.

Isolation of a yeast centromere and construction of functional small circular
chromosomes.

Clarke L, Carbon J.

The centromeric DNA (CEN3) from yeast chromosome III has been isolated on a 1.6
kilobase-pair segment of DNA located near the centromere-linked CDC10 locus of
Saccharomyces cerevisiae. When present on a plasmid carrying a yeast chromosomal 
replicator, CEN3 enables that plasmid to function as a chromosome both
mitotically and meiotically. Minichromosomes containing CEN3 are stable in
mitosis and segregate as ordinary yeast chromosomes in the first and second
meiotic divisions.


PMID: 6999364  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Nature. 1980 Oct 9;287(5782):542-4.

Effect of cyclosporin A on T-dependent and T-independent immunoglobulin synthesis
in vitro.

Paavonen T, Häyry P.

An immunosuppressive cyclic polypeptide, cyclosporin A (CyA), isolated originally
from two species of fungi, prolongs organ allograft survival in several species. 
However, virtually nothing is known about the pharmacokinetics of this substance 
and its mode of action in man. We have quantified the impact of CyA on
T-dependent and T-independent immunoglobulin (Ig) synthesis of human blood
leukocytes in vitro, and on the proliferating capacity of the interacting
lymphoid cell populations--T cells, B cells, T mu and T gamma cells. CyA
inhibited all responses at approximately equal concentrations. The blast cells
rather than resting lymphocytes and/or Ig-synthesizing plasma cells were
incapacitated by the drug. As the phagocytosis of accessory macrophages was
inhibited only at a 100--1,000-fold higher drug concentration, we conclude that
CyA has a relatively specific direct effect on human T and B blast cells in
vitro.


PMID: 6968408  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Nature. 1980 Oct 9;287(5782):544-6.

An immunological suppressor cell inactivating cytotoxic T-lymphocyte precursor
cells recognizing it.

Miller RG.

The immune system does not normally react against self components. Originally, it
was postulated that self-reactive cells were somehow deleted or blocked. More
recent thinking is that such cells are suppressed by regulatory networks similar 
to those limiting the immune response against non-self determinants. Both
mechanisms may exist. I describe here a type of suppression more closely related 
to the first postulate. In the in vitro, one-way, mixed lymphocyte reaction
(MLR), cytotoxic T-lymphocyte precursor cells (CLP) from the responder population
give rise to cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CL) capable of lysing target cells from the
stimulator population. A subpopulation of cells in the spleen of athymic nude
mice can, when added to such cultures, inactivate CLP capable of recognizing
either the H-2 antigens or TNP modifications of the nude spleen. Regarding the
nude spleen cells, activation of self-reactive cells is being prevented.


PMID: 6448351  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Nature. 1980 Oct 9;287(5782):491-9.

Transcription and RNA processing by the DNA tumour viruses.

Ziff EB.

Messenger RNA synthesis by the DNA tumour viruses proceeds by a complex but
versatile series of transcription and RNA processing steps. The major mechanistic
features of this pathway are probably very similar to those used by the animal
cell host itself. The viruses have, however, evolved intricate arrangements of
protein coding sequences and sites for RNA initiation, polyadenylation and
splicing which allow them to use their genetic information to maximum advantage.


PMID: 6252477  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Nature. 1980 Oct 9;287(5782):540-2.

Sharing of an idiotypic marker by monoclonal antibodies specific for distinct
regions of hen lysozyme.

Metzger DW, Miller A, Sercarz EE.

Idiotypes have been defined serologically as variable-region markers present on
unique subsets of antibody molecules. Most studies involving myeloma proteins and
antibody responses in inbred mice have indicated that idiotypy is closely related
to antigenic specificity. However, indirect evidence suggests that idiotypy can
sometimes be dissociated from specificity. In the response to the small monomeric
protein, hen egg-white lysozyme (HEL), previous results demonstrated that 70--95%
of the anti-HEL antibody found in sera of primed and boosted mice is specific for
a particular region of HEL and bears a predominant idiotype (IdX-HEL). In this
report, hybridoma anti-HEL antibodies tested with well-characterized peptide
fragments of HEL show that the IdX-HEL marker can be found on antibodies of
completely distinct antigen specificities. Thus, a mode of recognition other than
antigenic recognition probably plays a major role in the immune response to HEL.


PMID: 6158685  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Nature. 1980 Oct 9;287(5782):553-5.

Hormonal control of neurotransmitter choice in sympathetic neurone cultures.

Fukada K.

Manipulation of the cellular and hormonal environment of cultures of dissociated 
primary neurones can be used to explore a neurone's developmental potential and
to investigate the factors required for normal development. For example,
developing adrenergic sympathetic neurones can be influenced to become
cholinergic by both diffusible and membrane-bound factors from certain types of
non-neuronal cells; when medium conditioned by incubation on heart cell cultures 
(CM) is placed on the neurones, they develop the ability to produce acetylcholine
(ACh) and they form functional cholinergic synapses with each other. Hormones
could also contribute to the control of this transmitter choice, and McLennan et 
al. recently reported that corticosterone treatment of whole superior cervical
ganglia (SCG) greatly inhibited the cholinergic development of these ganglia in
culture. It was not clear, however, whether the hormone acted directly on the
neurones or indirectly via the non-neuronal cells. To study the role of hormones 
on this transmitter choice, I have now developed a serum-free medium (based on
that of Sato and co-workers) for the preparation of conditioned medium. The
results obtained with this system show that glucocorticoids and epidermal growth 
factor (EGF) exert dramatic and antagonistic effects on the
adrenergic-cholinergic transmitter choice and do so indirectly, by controlling
the ability of heart cells to produce cholinergic CM.


PMID: 6106901  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Nature. 1980 Oct 2;287(5781):458-61.

T-DNA of a crown gall teratoma is covalently joined to host plant DNA.

Yadav NS, Postle K, Saiki RK, Thomashow MF, Chilton MD.

Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains containing tumour-inducing (Ti) plasmids incite
cancerous growths called crown galls when inoculated into wounded dicotyledonous 
plants. Tumour tissue can be cultured axenically in vitro, and exhibits a
transformed phenotype in the absence of the inciting bacterium. Transformed cells
grow autonomously, are auxin and cytokinin autotrophic in vitro and synthesize
opines, novel amino acid derivatives dictated by Ti plasmid genetic information. 
A small segment of the Ti plasmid, termed T-DNA is maintained in axenic tumour
cells. Mitochondrial and chloroplast DNA from a crown gall teratoma are free from
T-DNA, whereas nuclear DNA contains T-DNA in amounts similar to that in total
tumour cell DNA. T-DNA appears to be attached to what is presumably plant DNA in 
the crown gall tumour cell: Southern blot analysis of tumour DNA digested with
restriction endonucleases reveals T-DNA fragments that are not fully homologous
to Ti plasmid DNA. We report here the isolation by molecular cloning of a 'border
fragment' T-DNA and flanking plant DNA from the crown gall teratoma BT37 and show
that T-DNA is covalently joined to a repeated DNA element of the tobacco nuclear 
genome.


PMID: 24627935 


185. Nature. 1980 Oct 2;287(5781):465-6.

Basal lamina glycoproteins are produced by neuroblastoma cells.

Alitalo K, Kurkinen M, Vaheri A, Virtanen I, Rohde H, Timpl R.

Murine neuroblastoma cells have been widely used as a model system for neuronal
cells as they can be induced to differentiate in culture by various stimuli, such
as dibutyryl cyclic AMP (dbcAMP), prostaglandin, and serum starvation. The cells 
respond with assembly of microtubules, leading to neurite outgrowth, with
increased activity of neuronal-specific enzymes, tyrosine hydroxylase, choline
acetyltransferase and acetylcholine-esterase, and synthesis of neurotransmitters.
The differentiated cells lose tumorigenicity. Cell-to-substratum adhesion is
evidently crucial for neurone extension in vitro. Neurite outgrowth is induced by
treatments that increase cell-to-substratum adhesion in some neuronal cell
cultures. We have now identified the major high molecular weight proteins
synthesized and secreted by murine C1300 neuroblastoma cells as fibronectin,
laminin and type IV procollagen, of which the latter two were also found to be
deposited in pericellular matrix form.


PMID: 7432474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Nature. 1980 Oct 2;287(5781):463-4.

Contrast perception above threshold is only minimally impaired in human
amblyopia.

Hess RF, Bradley A.

Amblyopia is a condition occurring at birth, or in early childhood, which affects
up to 5% of the population and is characterized by degraded vision in one eye not
able to be corrected by spectacles and having no observable lesion in the eye
itself. Its cause is therefore uncertain, yet indirect evidence suggests a neural
one, very likely in the visual areas of the brain. Ambyopia is usually associated
with either a strabismus (eye misalignment) or anisometropia (unequal refractive 
error). Investigation into its neural basis has involved two approaches:
psychophysical research in humans with amblyopia has shown marked contrast
deficits for threshold stimuli, suggesting deficient contrast coding at and above
threshold in amblyopia. Neurophysiological research on animals deprived in early 
life with either a surgically induced squint or an optically induced anisomeropia
has suggested that 'blur' may be the common etiological basis for these two
amblyopias. We have investigated here whether amblyopes exhibit contrast
deficiencies for other than threshold stimuli. Our measurements show that the
threshold deficits measured in amblyopia bear no simple relationship to what
happens above threshold. There is no contrast coding abnormality in amblyopia in 
the high-contrast range typical of everyday vision. We also give suprathreshold
evidence for anisometropic and strabismic amblyopia having different neural
bases.


PMID: 7432473  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Nature. 1980 Oct 2;287(5781):456-8.

Integration of Moloney leukaemia virus into the germ line of mice: correlation
between site of integration and virus activation.

Jähner D, Jaenisch R.

Endogenous avian and murine C-type viruses are genetic elements which are
transmitted at several distinct chromosomal loci. Different patterns of virus
activation have been observed in a variety of different mouse strains. However,
because there are multiple copies of closely related endogenous viruses in every 
mouse strain, the genetic basis of the differential expression of these genes is 
poorly understood. A new substrain of mice, BALB/Mo, was derived previously
carrying the exogenous Moloney leukaemia virus (M-MuLV) genome on chromosome 6
(ref. 14). Virus activation occurs in lymphatic tissues of all BALB/Mo mice soon 
after birth. We report here the derivation of three new substrains of mice each
carrying a single M-MuLV genome on different chromosomal integration sites. Each 
locus was associated with a distinct phenotype of virus expression. Evidence is
presented that apparently identical viral genomes show differences in spontaneous
virus activation and that defective viral genomes can be carried in the germ line
of mice.


PMID: 7432471  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Nature. 1980 Oct 2;287(5781):451-4.

Repeated tricyclics induce a progressive dopamine autoreceptor subsensitivity
independent of daily drug treatment.

Chiodo LA, Antelman SM.

Dopamine (DA) has largely been ignored in considering possible mechanisms
underlying the therapeutic effects of tricyclic anti-depressants (TCA). Most
previous work done has focused on the ability of some TCAs to block the in vitro 
re-uptake of DA--an effect which unfortunately requires very high doses.
Recently, however, Serra et al. proposed that TCAs may exert their therapeutic
effects by inducing a subsensitivity of presynaptic receptors located on the
dendrites and soma of DA neurones (DA autoreceptors). This hypothesis was
directly tested by examining the influence of TCAs on the demonstrated ability of
the DA agonist, apomorphine, to depress selectively the spontaneous activity of
single DA cells. We now report that repeated administration of both typical and
atypical TCAs induces a progressive subsensitivity of DA autoreceptors, and that 
this gradual augmentation of DA autoreceptor subsensitivity depends on the
passage of time rather than daily TCA administration. The latter finding suggests
that daily drug administration may not be therapeutically necessary.


PMID: 7432470  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Nature. 1980 Oct 2;287(5781):449-51.

Localization of[3H]-2-deoxyglucose in single molluscan neurones.

Sejnowski TJ, Reingold SC, Kelley DB, Gelperin A.

The glucose analogue 2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) can be used quantitatively to measure 
metabolic activity and is widely used qualitatively for mapping functional
activity in the brain. The resolution (meaning the full width at half maximum of 
the grain density distribution around a line source) of the technique using
[14C]-2-DG and X-ray film is limited to about 100 micrometers. Attempts have been
made to improve the resolution using [3H]-2-DG (ref. 6) and cellular resolution
has been achieved in the goldfish retina and with cultured mouse neurones. An
anatomical technique for mapping the metabolic activity of individual neurones
would be useful for studying invertebrate central nervous systems, which are
relatively simple and stereotyped compared to vertebrate brains. The [3H]-2-DG
technique was applied to an invertebrate in a study of the Drosophila visual
system, though without cellular resolution. We present here modifications of the 
[3H]-2-DG technique to demonstrate localization of 2-DG in single neurones of
Limax maximus, a gastropod mollusc, with a resolution of less than 1 micrometer.


PMID: 7432469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Nature. 1980 Oct 2;287(5781):445-7.

Relationship between increased aerobic glycolysis and DNA synthesis initiation
studied using glycolytic mutant fibroblasts.

Pouysségur J, Franchi A, Silvestre P.

Reports from several laboratories have suggested increased rates of glycolysis
play an essential part in the initiation of DNA synthesis. This is based on
observations that aerobic glycolysis: (1) occurs at low rate in resting mammalian
cells and at very high rate in tumour cells; (2) increases rapidly after DNA
synthesis is initiated by addition of serum or purified growth factors, and (3)
correlates with the expression of the transformed phenotype. Also, specific
inhibitors of aerobic glycolysis prevent the initiation of DNA synthesis. To
determine whether the rapid activation of phosphofructokinase--and therefore
glycolysis--by purified growth factors is necessary for the initiation of cell
proliferation, we have isolated and studied two classes of glycolytic mutants.
The first, isolated from Chinese hamster fibroblasts, has a total block in the
glycolytic pathway. The second, from hamster and Fisher rat fibroblasts maintains
a permanent high rate of glycolysis. We have found that both classes of mutants
retain normal control of DNA synthesis in response to serum. This dissociation
indicates that growth-factor-stimulated glycolysis is not involved in the control
of initiation of DNA synthesis and cell proliferation.


PMID: 7432468  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Nature. 1980 Oct 2;287(5781):440-2.

Control of natural resistance to Salmonella typhimurium and Leishmania donovani
in mice by closely linked but distinct genetic loci.

O'Brien AD, Rosenstreich DL, Taylor BA.

Inbred strains of mice vary in their sensitivity to infection with both
Salmonella typhimurium and Leishmania donovani. In both cases, this differential 
susceptibility is genetically controlled. Resistance to the intracellular
parasite L. donovani is determined by a single locus on chromosome 1, designated 
Lsh (ref. 4). The primary regulator of resistance to S. typhimurium is a single, 
dominant autosomal gene, named Ity (for immunity to typhimurium), and it has also
been recently mapped to chromosome 1 (ref. 6). In addition, two other genetic
loci regulate resistance to S. typhimurium in mice. These genes, Lpsd and xid,
are mutant alleles that render C3H/HeJ and CBA/N mice, respectively, salmonella
susceptible. Both Bradley and his colleagues, and Plant and Glynn, noted similar 
patterns of resistance or susceptibility of inbred strains of mice to L. donovani
and S. typhimurium, and therefore suggested that Lsh and Ity might be the same
gene. Mapping of both genes to the same region of chromosome 1 supported this
hypothesis but no linkage studies have been used to test it. Since recombinant
inbred (RI) mouse strains are, in effect, permanent segregant populations, they
are ideal for determing linkage between resistance genes to two different
pathogens. Therefore, we determined the S. typhimurium susceptibility of five
sets of RI mouse strains that had been previously typed for Lsh and conclude that
Lsh and Ity are closely linked but distinct genetic loci.


PMID: 7001248  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Nature. 1980 Oct 2;287(5781):437-40.

Cytolytically active murine T-cell hybrids.

Nabholz M, Cianfriglia M, Acuto O, Conzelmann A, Haas W, von Boehmer H, McDonald 
HR, Pohlit H, Johnson JP.

Following the demonstration that hybrids between normal B-lymphocytes and myeloma
cell lines continue to secrete antibodies with the same specificity as those
produced by the parental B-cells, many groups have tried to use this approach to 
obtain cell lines expressing T-lymphocyte functions by crossing thymoma lines not
expressing any measurable activity with various types of T-cell populations.
Although there have been reports that hybrids could be isolated which secrete
T-cell products with immunological activity, efforts to produce functionally
active hybrids from cytolytic T-cells have all been unsuccessful (refs 6, 7, and 
M. N. and H. D. Engers, unpublished). We have fused an established, T-cell growth
factor (TCGF)-dependent murine cytolytic T-lymphocyte (CTL) line with a mouse
thymoma line and have obtained hybrids with cytolytic activity when we selected
the hybrids in TCGF-containing medium, while hybrids isolated in the absence of
growth factor showed no detectable cytolytic potential.


PMID: 6968868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Nature. 1980 Oct 2;287(5781):396-401.

Improved conversion of methanol to single-cell protein by Methylophilus
methylotrophus.

Windass JD, Worsey MJ, Pioli EM, Pioli D, Barth PT, Atherton KT, Dart EC, Byrom
D, Powell K, Senior PJ.

The glutamate dehydrogenase gene of Escherichia coli has been cloned into broad
host-range plasmids and can complement glutamate synthase mutants of
Methylophilus methylotrophus. Assimilation of ammonia via glutamate dehydrogenase
is more energy-efficient than via glutamate synthase, thus the recombinant
organism converts more growth substrate, methanol, into cellular carbon.


PMID: 6776410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Nature. 1980 Oct 2;287(5781):447-9.

Single Na+ channel currents observed in cultured rat muscle cells.

Sigworth FJ, Neher E.

The voltage- and time-dependent conductance of membrane Na+ channels is
responsible for the propagation of action potentials in nerve and muscle cells.
In voltage-step-clamp experiments on neurone preparations containing 10(4)-10(7) 
Na+ channels the membrane conductance shows smooth variations in time, but
analysis of fluctuations and other eivdence suggest that the underlying
single-channel conductance changes are stochastic, rapid transitions between
'closed' and 'open' states as seen in other channel types. We report here the
first observations of currents through individual Na+ channels under
physiological conditions using an improved version of the extracellular
patch-clamp technique on cultured rat muscle cells. Our observations support
earlier inferences about channel gating and show a single-channel conductance of 
approximately 18 pS.


PMID: 6253802  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Nature. 1980 Oct 2;287(5781):443-5.

Continuous production of monoclonal rheumatoid factor by EBV-transformed
lymphocytes.

Steinitz M, Izak G, Cohen S, Ehrenfeld M, Flechner I.

Human B lymphocytes are immortalized by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV, ref. 1). The
virus can be used to establish lymphoblastoid cell lines that produce and
actively secrete specific antibodies. The original method, which we have used for
various antigens is based on selection of the specific surface antigen
receptor-positive lymphocytes from the peripheral blood lymphocytes of a donor
who was previously sensitized to the corresponding antigen. Furthermore, by
cloning the polyclonal anti-NNP cell line we have produced human monoclonal
antibodies for the first time in vitro. About 5-20 microgram ml-1 stably produced
specific antibody is obtained in the supernatant of the cell lines. This approach
can be used for the in vitro production of monoclonal human autoimmune antibodies
by EBV-immortalized lymphocytes from patients with autoimmune diseases. We
demonstrate the continuous production in vitro of a monoclonal IgM and anti-IgG
antibody (rheumatoid factor, r.f.) by a lymphoblastoid cell line established from
a patient with rheumatoid arthritis.


PMID: 6253801  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Nature. 1980 Oct 2;287(5781):454-6.

Interferon treatment inhibits glycosylation of a viral protein.

Maheshwari RK, Banerjee DK, Waechter CJ, Olden K, Friedman RM.

Earlier, we reported a 30-200-fold reduction in the yield of infectious vesicular
stomatitis virus (VSV) released from L cells treated with 10-30 reference units
ml-1 of interferon (IFN); however, in these cultures virus particle production,
as measured by VSV particle-associated viral RNA, virus nucleocapsid protein and 
viral transcriptase, was inhibited less than 10-fold. There was biochemical and
morphological evidence of a significant reduction in glycoprotein (G) and
membrane protein (M) of VSV particles released from IFN-treated cells. We compare
here the effects of tunicamycin (TM) and IFN in L cells. Treatment with TM or IFN
reduced the production of infectious VSV particles, decreased the amount of G and
M proteins in VSV released from treated cells, and inhibited an early step in the
formation of asparagine-linked oligosaccharide chains, the incorporation by
membrane preparations from treated cells of N-acetylglucosamine into glycolipids 
with the properties of dolichol derivatives.


PMID: 6159539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Nature. 1980 Oct 2;287(5781):411-6.

Human leukocyte interferon produced by E. coli is biologically active.

Goeddel DV, Yelverton E, Ullrich A, Heyneker HL, Miozzari G, Holmes W, Seeburg
PH, Dull T, May L, Stebbing N, Crea R, Maeda S, McCandliss R, Sloma A, Tabor JM, 
Gross M, Familletti PC, Pestka S.

A human leukocyte interferon cDNA was enzymatically synthesized, inserted into
the vector pBR322, and cloned in Escherichia coli. The DNA sequence codes for a
23-amino acid signal peptide followed by an interferon polypeptide of 165 amino
acids. An expression plasmid was constructed which permits the synthesis in E.
coli of 2.5 x 10(8) units of interferon per litre of culture. This LeIF protected
squirrel monkeys from lethal encephalomyocarditis virus infection.


PMID: 6159538  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Nature. 1980 Oct 2;287(5781):408-11.

A family of structural genes for human lymphoblastoid (leukocyte-type)
interferon.

Allen G, Fantes KH.

Amino acid sequences of tryptic and chymotryptic peptides from human
lymphoblastoid interferon (IFN-alpha) have been determined. The results show that
IFN-alpha consists of a family of proteins with at least five different, but
homologous, primary structures. There appears to be little, if any, glycosylation
of the major components of IFN-alpha.


PMID: 6159537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Nature. 1980 Oct 2;287(5781):401-8.

The structure of one of the eight or more distinct chromosomal genes for human
interferon-alpha.

Nagata S, Mantei N, Weissmann C.

The 12 interferon (IFN)-related sequences detected in a human gene bank fall into
not less than eight distinct classes, indicating that there are at least eight
IFN-related genes. Most, if not all, of these direct the synthesis of an IFN in
Escherichia coli. The sequence of one chromosomal gene and its flanking regions
was identical to that deduced for the cDNA corresponding to IFN-alpha l mRNA. No 
evidence was found for the existence of an intron, in either the coding or the
non-coding segments of the gene.


PMID: 6159536  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Nature. 1980 Sep 25;287(5780):363-4.

Cooperative structural transition of PM2 DNA at high ionic strength and its
dependence on DNA damages.

Kuhnlein U, Tsang SS, Edwards J.

Pohl and Jovin have shown that poly(dG--dC) . poly (dG--dC) in solution undergoes
a cooperative transition at 2.5 M NaCl at neutral pH. The two forms of the
polymer are structurally different as indicated by a change in ethidium bromide
intercalation and in circular dichroism (CD). Wang et al. and Davies and
Zimmerman have suggested that the low salt form of the polymer might correspond
to the B form of DNA (right-handed helix) and the high salt form to the Z form of
DNA (left-handed helix). We describe here a salt-induced transition of
supercoiled PM2 DNA from a form which passes through nitrocellulose filters to a 
form which is retained by these filters. The transition occurs between 2.5 and
3.5 M NaCl. The dependence of the apparent equilibrium constant on the salt
concentration indicates a cooperative transition. Irradiation of DNA with UV
light or alkylation with N-acetoxyacetylaminofluorene (AAAF) shifts the
transition to lower salt concentrations. The transition can also be observed with
linear DNA but requires a much higher salt concentration.


PMID: 7421998  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Nature. 1980 Sep 25;287(5780):353-4.

Leukaemia virus infection promotes fibroblast transformation by normal BALB/c
mouse DNA.

Krump-Konvalinkova V, van den Berg KJ.

All normal cells are thought to carry genetic information for oncogenic
transformation, which, on activation to continuous expression, might make the
cell cancerous. The presently known transforming retroviruses contain
transforming genes which were probably derived by recombination of a slow
oncogenic retrovirus with cellular sequences closely related to these genes. It
was recently reported that cellular DNA fragments from normal tissue culture
cells could transform mouse fibroblasts in vitro with a low efficiency. High
efficiency of transformation was observed in secondary transfections only when
high molecular weight DNA from transformed recipient cells was used as the
transforming agent. We observed that DNA isolated from different BALB/c mouse
organs can transform both NIH/3T3 and BALB/3T3 cells, although at a low
frequency. In attempts to increase the initial efficiency of transformation, we
have found that preinfection of recipient 3T3 cells with murine leukaemia viruses
markedly enhances focus formation by normal BALB/c DNA fragments.


PMID: 7421997  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Nature. 1980 Sep 25;287(5780):351-3.

Light isomerizes the chromophore of bacteriorhodopsin.

Tsuda M, Glaccum M, Nelson B, Ebrey TG.

The primary photochemical event in the two light-transducing pigments whose
chromophore is retinal, rhodopsin or bacteriorhodopsin, is a source of
controversy. It was originally proposed that the primary photoevent in the
bleaching of rhodopsin is the photoisomerization of the chromophore from 11-cis
to all-trans retinal. Photochemical considerations suggested that a
photoisomerization is the primary event in both rhodopsin and bacteriorhodopsin. 
However, this description of bacteriorhodopsin's photochemistry has been
questioned. To elucidate this problem, we determined the isomeric conformation of
retinal for two of the photolytic intermediates of bacteriorhodopsin, using a
method that enables us to extract chromophores from the photocycle intermediates 
L and M at low temperatures (-74 degrees C), and have determined the isomeric
conformation of the extracted retinals by HPLC. Here we provide direct evidence
that isomerization of the chromophore has taken place in two of the early
photocycle intermediates (L and M) of bacteriorhodopsin.


PMID: 7421996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Nature. 1980 Sep 25;287(5780):349-51.

Spontaneous quantal events induced in toad rods by pigment bleaching.

Lamb TD.

Barlow proposed that absolute visual threshold is limited by photon-like noise
events in the rod photoreceptors, and he later extended the idea to explain the
elevation of threshold following bright bleaching lights in terms of increased
noise in the photoreceptors. Rushton, on the other hand, has proposed that the
threshold elevation during dark adaptation involves changes not within the
photoreceptors themselves but rather in the gain of a subsequent 'pool'. I report
here measurements of outer segment current in individual rod photoreceptors which
demonstrate that spontaneous fluctuations occur at a greatly increased rate
following bleaches of around 1%, and that these fluctuations have the form
expected for random occurrences of the single photon events. This is consistent
with Barlow's ideas but does not indicate whether a gain change subsequent to the
receptors also occurs.


PMID: 7421995  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Nature. 1980 Sep 25;287(5780):348-9.

Absence of potassium conductance in central myelinated axons.

Kocsis JD, Waxman SG.

Two voltage-dependent changes in ionic permeability are responsible for the
action potential in squid giant axon. The depolarization phase of the action
potential is due to an initial increase in sodium ion permeability, and
repolarization is primarily the result of a later increase in potassium
permeability. However, voltage-clamp experiments on mammalian peripheral nodes of
Ranvier indicate that potassium conductances (gk) may be minimal or lacking for
intact mammalian peripheral myelinated axons. Repolarization for these fibres has
been explained in terms of a rapid sodium inactivation and large leakage current.
When the myelin around these fibres is acutely disrupted, an immediate and
prominent gk appears. Following demyelination, gk blocking agents have been shown
to reduce late outward currents that are not present in normal myelinated fibres.
This suggests that K+ channels are present in the axonal membrane under the
myelin but are 'masked' in normal peripheral myelinated axons. Previous studies
have not investigated the presence or role of K+ channels in central myelinated
axons. We here establish that gk is not detectable in mammalian dorsal column
axons.


PMID: 7421994  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Nature. 1980 Sep 25;287(5780):346-7.

Intracellular studies showing modulation of facial motoneurone excitability by
serotonin.

VanderMaelen CP, Aghajanian GK.

The application of serotonin to certain myenteric plexus neurones in the guinea
pig small intestine causes a slow depolarization of membrane potential,
accompanied by increased neuronal excitability and input resistance. On the other
hand, microiontophoretic application of large amounts of serotonin onto mammalian
spinal motoneurones is reported to cause membrane hyperpolarization and decreased
excitability. However, on the basis of recording spinal reflex activity,
serotonin has been reported to enhance net motoneurone activity. Moreover,
studies using extracellular single-cell recording techniques indicate that
serotonin in small amounts facilitates synaptically or glutamate-induced
excitation of mammalian motoneurones in the facial nucleus and spinal cord. It
was suggested that these facilitatory actions were modulatory in nature, as
serotonin did not induce motoneurone spiking in the absence of extrinsic
excitatory input. The study reported here investigated the membrane mechanisms
underlying these modulatory effects by obtaining intracellular recordings from
rat facial motoneurones during extracellular microiontophoretic application of
serotonin, methysergide (a serotonin antagonist) and noradrenaline. Serotonin
caused a slow depolarization of membrane potential of about 5 mV which remained
sub-threshold, accompanied by an increase in electrical excitability of the
neurone, and an increase in input resistance. Noradrenaline caused the same
changes. Methysergide antagonized the effects of serotonin, but not
noradrenaline, indicating that these actions of serotonin are selective and
receptor mediated.


PMID: 7421993  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Nature. 1980 Sep 25;287(5780):335-7.

Isoelectric focusing of IgG eluted from multiple sclerosis and subacute
sclerosing panencephalitis brains.

Mattson DH, Roos RP, Arnason BG.

Elevated IgG distributed in oligoclonal bands is characteristically observed in
the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) or
subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE). Similarly, IgG in bands has been
detected in neutral saline (NS) and acid eluates of brain material from these two
diseases. We have now used isoelectric focusing (IEF) to compare IgG eluted from 
control brain, three plaques and a white matter pool of an MS brain, and three
regions of an SSPE brain. A direct peroxidase-conjugated anti-human IgG staining 
technique was used to stain IgG exclusively and to visualize the minute amounts
of IgG obtained from individual MS plaques. Eluates from individual MS plaques
have distinct IgG patterns; in contrast, those from separate SSPE brain areas
have essentially identical IgG patterns. The identical IgG patterns in three
areas of SSPE brain suggest a common response to the same antigen. The different 
IgG patterns among MS plaques suggest: (1) variable response to the same 'MS
antigen' in each plaque, (2) response to different MS antigens in different
plaques, (3) synthesis of 'nonsense' antibodies irrelevant to the pathogenesis of
MS in each plaque, or (4) some combination of the above.


PMID: 7421992  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Nature. 1980 Sep 25;287(5780):332-3.

Isolation of human haematopoietic progenitor cells using monoclonal antibodies.

Beverley PC, Linch D, Delia D.

Studies of the differentiation of human haematopoietic cells have been greatly
advanced by the use of in vitro cloning techniques to enumerate the myeloid and
erythroid progenitor cells which form colonies in semi-solid medium. The
granulocytic/monocytic colony-forming cells (CFU-GM) and erythroid burst-forming 
cells (BFU-E) are thought to be mononuclear cells, similar in size to medium size
lymphocytes, but their ontogenetic relationship to other progenitor cells and the
putative pluripotential stem cell remains obscure. This is partly because
elucidation of parent-progeny relationships requires the isolation of precursor
cells before they acquire mature phenotypic characters. Physical methods have
failed to separate CFU-GM cleanly from other cells because of their
heterogeneity, and immunologically specific markers for human progenitor cells
have not been reported. We report here that a fraction containing all the
granulocytic/monocytic and erythroid progenitor cells, as well as cells which may
be lymphoid progenitors, can be isolated from bone marrow using a combination of 
monoclonal antibodies.


PMID: 7421991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Nature. 1980 Sep 25;287(5780):301-6.

Cloning and DNA sequence of double-stranded copies of haemagglutinin genes from
H2 and H3 strains elucidates antigenic shift and drift in human influenza virus.

Gething MJ, Bye J, Skehel J, Waterfield M.

Double-stranded DNA copies of the RNA gene coding for the haemagglutinin
glycoproteins from human H2 and H3 pandemic strains of influenza virus have been 
cloned. DNA sequence analysis provides the first reported complete nucleotide
sequence of an H2 haemagglutinin gene and a partial sequence (45%) of the H3
gene. The H2 haemagglutinin gene consists of 1,773 nucleotides containing an
uninterrupted coding sequence of 1,686 nucleotides specifying a protein of 562
amino acids. Comparison of the amino acid sequences of these haemagglutinins with
those of other H3 and avian strains reveals the extent of sequence changes in
antigenic shifts and drifts.


PMID: 7421990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Nature. 1980 Sep 25;287(5780):328-30.

Sexual dimorphism in early anthropoids.

Fleagle JG, Kay RF, Simons EL.

Sexual dimorphism in canine/premolar tooth size and in body size is found among
many species of living primates and has been shown to be correlated with social
organization. Among extant higher primate species that normally live in the
nuclear families consisting of a mated pair with their offspring, adult males and
females are similar in body size and in the size of canine and anterior premolar 
teeth. In contrast, higher primate species living in more 'complex' polygynous
groups (either single-male harems or multi-male groups) are characterized by
sexual dimorphism in the size of canine/premolar teeth and frequently by body
size dimorphism as well. We provide here the first evidence for sexual dimorphism
in three species of primates from the Oligocene of Egypt--Aegyptopithecus zeuxis,
Propliopithecus chirobates, and Apidium phiomense. This is the earliest record of
sexual dimorphism among higher primates and suggests, by analogy with living
species, that the earliest known fossil Old World anthropoids lived in polygynous
(either single-male harems or multi-male groups) rather than monogamous social
groups.


PMID: 6999362  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Nature. 1980 Sep 25;287(5780):355-7.

Inhibition of 40S--Met--tRNAfMet ribosomal initiation complex formation by
vaccinia virus.

Person A, Ben-Hamida F, Beaud G.

Infection with vaccinia virus (a poxvirus) quickly and efficiently shuts off host
protein synthesis in the presence of actinomycin D (refs 3--5) or cycloheximide. 
The cellular messenger RNA apparently remains stable in the infected cells
exposed to inhibitors of viral gene transcription. In some cases vaccinia viral
RNA or poly(A) synthesis have been implicated in the establishment of this
effect. However, in the presence of cordycepin (3-deoxyadenosine) which blocks
viral gene transcription and cytoplasmic poly(A) synthesis, cellular protein
synthesis is still efficiently inhibited in vaccinia virus-infected cells. This
shutoff is also observed in vitro, in the corresponding cell-free extracts, and
in a reticulocyte lysate. Therefore the shutoff of host protein synthesis is
probably mediated by a factor associated with vaccinia virions. We now report
that the formation of the 40S--Met-tRNAfMet initiation complex is inhibited in
cytoplasmic extracts derived from vaccinia virus-infected cells exposed to
cordycepin to block viral gene expression. A similar inhibition is found in
reticulocyte lysates incubated with purified vaccinia cores, confirming the
hypothesis that the factor associated with the viral cores is responsible for the
inhibition observed in vaccinia virus-infected cells exposed to inhibitors of
transcription.


PMID: 6968407  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Nature. 1980 Sep 25;287(5780):340-3.

Nuclear accumulation of epidermal growth factor in cultured rat pituitary cells.

Johnson LK, Vlodavsky I, Baxter JD, Gospodarowicz D.

Epidermal growth factor (EGF) is a mitogen for epidermal cells in vivo and for a 
wide variety of cells in culture. Recently, we and others have reported that EGF 
can also regulate the cellular levels of various hormones and fibronectin at
concentrations which only minimally influence cell division. In addition, EGF
treatment of GH3 cells affects chromatin structure such that isolated nuclei from
treated cells have an increased capacity to bind bacterial RNA polymerase in
initiation site complexes. Thus, the data suggest that various nuclear functions 
are modulated by EGF in GH3 cells despite its failure to affect DNA synthesis or 
cell proliferation. Recently, Yanker and Shooter have reported on the nuclear
accumulation of nerve growth factor (NGF) in PC12 cells in which NGF does not
promote cell division but does influence RNA and protein synthesis while inducing
overt differentiation (neurite outgrowth). The similarities between the two
systems and the various theories regarding the mechanism by which mitogens exert 
their growth-promoting and other effects led us to investigate whether an
interaction between EGF and the cell nucleus can be demonstrated after surface
binding and internalization of EGF in GH3 cells. We report here that when its
lysosomal degradation is inhibited by chloroquine, EGF accumulates in the
nucleus.


PMID: 6968406  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Nature. 1980 Sep 25;287(5780):291-6.

Actin in the inner ear: the remarkable structure of the stereocilium.

DeRosier DJ, Tilney LG, Egelman E.

The actin filament bundle in the stereocilium of the cochlear hair cell has
liquid transverse order, but paracrystalline axial order. A single bonding rule, 
which determines how a cross bridging protein links neighbouring filaments,
accounts for this unusual structure. Such liquid order is possible for bundles of
other filamentous proteins.


PMID: 6893482  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Nature. 1980 Sep 25;287(5780):338-40.

Limitations in the use of actomyosin threads as model contractile systems.

Altringham JD, Yancey PH, Johnston IA.

Recent studies have suggested that actomyosin threads may provide a useful model 
for studying the properties of contractile systems. The development of highly
sensitive positional feedback transducers has enabled the properties of these
threads to be measured reproducibly. Potential applications include such systems 
as ventricle, smooth muscle and non-muscle preparations, from which it is
difficult to obtain suitable fibres for mechanical studies. In addition, studies 
with chemically modified myosins may provide new insights into the relationships 
between the biochemical and mechanical events in the cross-bridge cycle. However,
there are indications that the mechanical properties of actomyosin threads differ
from those of intact fibres in several important respects. For example,
contraction velocity is proportional to isometric tension in threads, but is
independent of filament density in intact fibres. We have now determined the
force-velocity characteristics of actomyosin threads prepared from muscles with
known differences in their physiological contraction velocities. No direct
relationships could be found between the velocity characteristics of the threads 
and those of intact muscle. We conclude that the measured velocities of threads
reflect properties of the actomyosins other than cross-bridge cycling times, thus
severely limiting the usefulness of this technique for comparative purposes.


PMID: 6448350  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Nature. 1980 Sep 25;287(5780):361-3.

In vitro suppression of UGA codons in a mitochondrial mRNA.

De Ronde A, Van Loon AP, Grivell LA, Kohli J.

Although both prokaryotic and eukaryotic messenger RNAs can be easily translated 
in heterologous protein-synthesizing systems, attempts to achieve correct
synthesis of mitochondrial proteins by translation of mitochondrial mRNAs in such
systems have failed. In general, the products of synthesis are of low molecular
weight and presumably represent fragments of mitochondrial proteins. These
fragments display a strong tendency to aggregate. Explanations have included the 
use by mitochondria of codons requiring a specialized tRNA population and the
fortuitous occurrence within genes of purine-rich sequences resembling bacterial 
ribosome binding sites. In addition, the long 5'-leader sequences present in many
mitochondrial (mt) RNAs may also contribute to difficulties in mRNA recognition
by heterologous ribosomes. Recent sequence analysis of human mtDNA suggests that 
the genetic code used by mammalian mitochondria deviates in a number of respects 
from the 'universal' code, the most striking of these being the use of the UGA
termination codon to specify tryptophan. That this may also apply in yeast
mitochondria has been shown by Fox and Macino et al., thus providing an obvious
and easily testable explanation for the inability of heterologous systems to
synthesize full-length mitochondrial proteins. We confirm this explanation and
describe here the in vitro synthesis of a full-length subunit II of yeast
cytochrome c oxidase in a wheat-germ extract supplemented with a partially
purified mitochondrial mRNA for this protein and a UGA-suppressor tRNA from
Schizosaccharomyces pombe.


PMID: 6252475  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Nature. 1980 Sep 25;287(5780):357-9.

S-adenosylmethionine--a novel regulator of aspartate kinase.

Rognes SE, Lea PJ, Miflin BJ.

Man derives 70% of his dietary requirements of protein directly from the grains
of cereals and legumes. These sources are respectively deficient in lysine (and
secondarily threonine) and methionine and much effort is being devoted to their
improvement. All three amino acids are derived from aspartate via a common
metabolic pathway (Fig. 1) in which the first reaction catalysed by aspartate
kinase is a key regulatory step limiting their production. In microorganisms,
regulation of aspartate kinase occurs by a variety of mechanisms, commonly
involving feedback inhibition of one or more isoenzymes by Lys plus Thr, Lys
alone or Thr alone. On the other hand, Met control of this step does not seem to 
conform to a general pattern. Met represses, but does not inhibit aspartate
kinase II of Escherichia coli; in other species Met can enhance or modify the
effects of Lys or Thr. Similarly, varied controls involving Lys and Thr have been
reported for the enzymes from higher plants with only one report of an effect of 
Met. In contrast to these previous results, we suggest here that the methionine
derivative (S)-S-adenosyl-L-methionine (AdoMet) is an important regulator of the 
Lys-sensitive aspartate kinase of higher plants, and that this regulatory
mechanism is highly conserved. There is thus a major synergistic interaction of
the two nutritionally deficient amino acids Lys and Met to inhibit their own
syntheses at the primary regulatory step in the pathway.


PMID: 6252474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Nature. 1980 Sep 25;287(5780):343-5.

VIP occurs in intrathyroidal nerves and stimulates thyroid hormone secretion.

Ahrén B, Alumets J, Ericsson M, Fahrenkrug J, Fahrenkrug L, Håkanson R, Hedner P,
Lorén I, Melander A, Rerup C, Sundler F.

Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) is known to have powerful effects on the 
secretion from several endocrine and exocrine glands, and occurs in nerves with a
ubiquitous distribution in the body. This infers that neuronal VIP may be a
regulator of such secretion, and there is evidence that it is involved in the
regulation of exocrine pancreatic function. Previous studies have shown that
adrenergic and cholinergic nerves participate in the regulation of thyroid
hormone secretion. We describe here combined immunohistochemical and
immunochemical studies which show that the thyroid of several species is supplied
with VIP-containing nerve fibres that surround blood vessels and run between and 
along thyroid follicles and that in the mouse neuronal VIP participates in the
regulation of thyroid hormone secretion through a mechanism that is mediated by
cyclic AMP.


PMID: 6252473  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Nature. 1980 Sep 25;287(5780):334-5.

Mitotic EBNA-positive lymphocytes in peripheral blood during infectious
mononucleosis.

Robinson J, Smith D, Niederman J.

Infectious mononucleosis (IM) is usually a benign lymphoproliferative disease
caused by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Although EBV induces a state of continuous
proliferation in infected B lymphocytes in vitro, the most prominent
lymphoproliferation during IM is of activated, or atypical, T lymphocytes
presumably responding to the virus or virus-infected cells. However, EBV
genome-carrying cells are known to be circulating during IM, as cultured
peripheral blood leukocytes from patients with the disease give rise to
continuous lymphoblastoid cell lines, each cell of which contains the EBV genome 
and expresses the EBV determined nuclear antigen (EBNA). The proposal that
EBV-infected cells in IM blood are not endowed with enhanced growth potential but
are merely latently infected is supported by demonstrations that cells infected
in vivo enter a viral replicative cycle when placed in vitro and that most cell
lines derived from cultured lymphocytes of IM patients are infected by virus
released in vitro. However the cells could also be capable of proliferation in
vivo, since virus production and transformation are not mutually exclusive
properties of EBV-transformed cells. Recently, EBNA has been detected in a very
small fraction of peripheral blood lymphocytes of IM patients after T cells were 
first removed and this has been interpreted to indicate that cell transformation 
occurs in vivo during IM. The isolation of colonies of EBNA-positive cells from
IM blood leukocytes cultures in soft agar suggests that at least some infected
cells are capable of direct outgrowth into transformed cells. We report here
direct evidence that circulating EBV-infected cells exhibit increased growth
properties during IM.


PMID: 6252472  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Nature. 1980 Sep 25;287(5780):297-300.

Resolution, reconstitution and kinetics of the primary action of a hormone
receptor.

Citri Y, Schramm M.

The beta-adrenergic receptor (R) and the GTP binding protein (G) with which the
receptor interacts were obtained in separate soluble fractions. Their
recombination produced a hormone responsive system. In the presence of hormone
the encounter of R with G in the reconstituted membrane occurs much faster than
the subsequent R-induced activation of G.


PMID: 6252471  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Nature. 1980 Sep 18;287(5779):253-4.

Secondary isotope effects in studies using radiolabelled folate tracers.

Connor MJ, Blair JA, Said H.

The use of isotopically labelled compounds as metabolic tracers in in vivo and in
vitro studies is particularly important in folate biochemistry, where the natural
coenzyme forms occur in transient and trace amounts. However, during our studies 
on the whole body metabolism of radioactive folate tracers, we have now observed 
that some forms of isotopically labelled folate are biologically distinguishable 
from the unlabelled carrier molecules by an as yet unidentified secondary isotope
effect. Folates excreted in the urine of rats dosed previously with mixtures of
14C- and 3H-labelled folate derivatives are apparently 3H enriched, that is
contain more 3H than 14C relative to the dosed compound. This apparent 3H
enrichment was largely due to the enhanced absorption of 3H-folate from the
intestine, confirmed by studies with everted sac preparations of rat jejunum in
which it was found that the 3H-labelled folate in the mixture was transported
from the mucosal into the serosal compartment at a faster rate than both the
14C-labelled folate and the unlabelled carrier. Secondary isotope effects were
also observed on ion-exchange chromatography, 3H-labelled folates with 3H at the 
C-9 position eluting fractionally earlier than the corresponding unlabelled or
[2-14C]folate from DEAE-cellulose, a behaviour similar to that reported earlier
for isotopically labelled 2-aminopurine and several amino acids. Such isotope
effects may be more widespread and more important than is generally accepted.


PMID: 7432462  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Nature. 1980 Sep 18;287(5779):246-8.

Early capping of transcripts from the adenovirus major late transcription unit.

Babich A, Nevins JR, Darnell JE Jr.

The various events which result in modification of a primary RNA transcipt may
have a role in choosing transcripts which are to be processed into mRNA. If there
is a stepwise and interdependent nature to each of the modifications then it is
important to place the various steps in temporal order. We show here that the
formation of a capped 5' terminus seems to be a very early event for adenovirus
type 2 (Ad-2) nuclear RNA that is initiated at the major late Ad-2 promoter.
There is an equally rapid entry of 3H-adenosine into the cap and the first dozen 
or so adenylate residues in the RNA chain. Taken together with evidence on
general mRNA metabolism in Chinese hamster cells, it seems unlikely that capping 
has any differential role in successful RNA processing rather is an automatic
event for all RNA polymerase II products.


PMID: 7432461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Nature. 1980 Sep 18;287(5779):244-5.

Covalent binding of polycyclic aromatic compounds to mitochondrial and nuclear
DNA.

Allen JA, Coombs MM.

Since the pioneering work of the Millers it has become clear that most chemical
carcinogens require metabolism to reactive electrophiles and then exhibit their
carcinogenic potential by reacting chemically with, and modifying, cellular
macromolecules. At first modification of proteins was considered most likely to
be of importance in carcinogenesis. Later, Brookes and Lawley demonstrated that
the extent of binding of several polycyclic hydrocarbons to DNA, but not to RNA
or protein isolated from the skin of mice treated topically with these compounds,
correlated with their known carcinogenic potency to this tissue. Mammalian cells,
particularly mouse embryo cells, treated with chemical carcinogens have often
been used, and DNA has been involved almost exclusively from whole cells.
However, mitochondria possess unique DNA which accounts for 0.1-1% of the total
DNA present in mammalian cells, and three studies have shown that carcinogenic
alkylating agents modify the michondrial DNA by a factor about five times greater
than the nuclear DNA from the same cells. We demonstrate here that with six
polycyclic aromatic compounds, all of which require metabolic activation and bind
to DNA to a much smaller extent than direct than direct-acting alkylating agents,
the binding to mitochondrial relative to DNA is dramatically increased by a
factor of nearly 50 to over 500.


PMID: 7432460  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Nature. 1980 Sep 18;287(5779):226-8.

Expulsion of Nippostrongylus brasiliensis by mice deficient in mast cells.

Uber CL, Roth RL, Levy DA.

Expulsion of the intestinal helminth, Nippostrongylus brasiliensis, occurs
spontaneously about 2 weeks after a primary infection of rats and mice. Cellular 
changes in the small intestine coincident with the period of expulsion have
suggested several mechanisms by which this 'self-cure' may be effected. Local
anaphylaxis was proposed as a possible means of parasite clearance; this
hypothesis has been supported by the demonstration of specific reaginic antibody 
production and jejunal mast cell accumulation in infected animals. In addition,
increased mucus secretion and more recently, goblet cell proliferation in the
jejunal mucosa of rats have been noted and considered as potentially important in
mediating the self-cure reaction. The data presented below indicate that in the
absence of demonstrable mast cells, the course of a primary infection with this
parasite is unchanged; however, they are supportive of a role for globlet cells
in the self-cure reaction.


PMID: 7432459  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Nature. 1980 Sep 18;287(5779):225-6.

Direct evidence of sudden rise in fetal corticoids late in human gestation.

Fencl MD, Stillman RJ, Cohen J, Tulchinsky D.

Glucocorticoids accelerate fetal lung maturation in all mammals studied, and in
some species, such as goat and sheep, concentrations of fetal cortisol increase
sharply before term, bringing about a train of events leading to parturition.
Studies of cortisol in the umbilical cord blood have revealed no such increase at
the end of human pregnancy. But information obtained in that way is difficult to 
interpret because much of the fetal cortisol is of maternal origin and its
concentration, if sampled at delivery, is affected by maternal stress. These
problems can be avoided to some extent by studying other fetal corticoids.
Corticosterone sulphate (once called compound B, and abbreviated to BS) is
produced by fetal adrenal glands and is present in greater concentrations in
human fetal plasma than in maternal plasma. It is hydrolysed by the placental
sulphatases and is a poor substrate for for placental 11 beta- hydroxysteroid
dehydrogenase. We report here confirmation that the bulk of maternal BS
originates from the fetus, and that its concentration increases suddenly at term.


PMID: 7432458  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Nature. 1980 Sep 18;287(5779):228-30.

Haematopoietic growth factors are released in cultures of H-2-restricted helper T
cells, accessory cells and specific antigen.

Schreier MH, Iscove NN.

Colony formation by mammalian haematopoietic cells in culture depends on specific
glycoprotein growth factors. 'Colony-stimulating factors' for granulocytic and
macrophage precursors (G- and M-CSFs), as well as for pluripotential and early
committed erythroid cells ('burst promoting activity, or BPA) are released in
cultures of stimulated spleen, lymph node or peripheral blood cells. In such
systems the induction stimulus has been either allogenic cell antigens, or
lectins which stimulate T cells, such as pokeweed mitogen, concanavalin A (Con A)
or phytohaemagglutin and both T cells and adherent cells are implicated in the
process. The complexity of the spleen cell populations used in earlier in vitro
studies has made it difficult to establish the cellular source of the factors and
the mechanisms leading to their release. Pure populations of continuously growing
cell lines of either monocytic/macrophage or T-cell character have already been
shown to release haematopoietic activities constitutively. However, such evidence
cannot prove that these functions are also expressed by the normal counterparts
of these lines. We have reduced the complexity of the spleen cell system by
supplying helper T cells in the form of pure clonal populations of known
physiological function and antigenic specificity, and demonstrate here that
activity is released when helper T cells are cultured with specific antigen, and 
that release depends on H-2 (I-A region) restricted interaction with accesory
cells present in spleen or normal peritoneal cavity.


PMID: 6968866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Nature. 1980 Sep 18;287(5779):233-5.

Regulation of non-muscle myosin assembly by calmodulin-dependent light chain
kinase.

Scholey JM, Taylor KA, Kendrick-Jones J.

The presence of actin and myosin in non-muscle cells suggests that they may be
involved in a wide range of cellular contractile activities. The generally
accepted view is that interaction between actin and myosin in these cells and in 
vertebrate smooth muscle, is regulated by the level of phosphorylation of the
20,000-molecular weight (MW) light chain. In the absence of calcium, this light
chain is not phosphorylated and the myosin cannot interact with actin. Calcium
activates a specific calmodulin-dependent kinase which phosphorylates the light
chain, initiating actin-myosin interaction. Although most studies on the role of 
phosphorylation have concentration on the regulation of actin-activated myosin
Mg-ATPase activity, phosphorylation of the light chain also seems to control the 
assembly of smooth muscle myosin into filaments. Using purified smooth muscle
light chain kinase, we have confirmed this observation. We report here studies of
myosins isolated from the two non-muscle sources, thymus cells and platelets. We 
observed that these myosins are assembled into filaments at physiological ionic
strength and Mg-ATP concentrations, only when the 20,000-MW light chain is
phosphorylated.


PMID: 6893621  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Nature. 1980 Sep 18;287(5779):250-1.

Archaebacterial elongation factor is ADP-ribosylated by diphtheria toxin.

Kessel M, Klink F.

Archaebacteria have been defined as a 'third primary kingdom' of cells in
addition to the urkaryotes and the eubacteria. While the latter two correspond
approximately to the conventional categories eukaryotes and prokaryotes
respectively, the Archaebacteria have up to now comprised four groups of
microorganisms: the methanogenic bacteria, the extremely halophilic bacteria and 
the two thermoacidophilic genera Sulfolobus and Thermoplasma. Based on ribosomal 
RNA sequence homologies and lipid composition, they apparently form a distinct
group. Furthermore they possess or lack typical biochemical markers of both the
eukaryotes and the prokaryotes, as well as having unique properties not found
elsewhere. Altogether, this indicates that they are not closer to either one of
the classical categories. One clear-cut difference between prokaryotes and
eukaryotes is the diphtheria toxin reaction, which catalyses the covalent binding
of adenosine diphosphate-ribose (ADPR) to the eukaryotic peptide elongation
factor EF2 in contrast to the homologous prokaryotic factor EF-G. We report here 
that diphtheria toxin also catalyses the ADP-riboslation of archaebacterial
elongation factors. In this respect, these factors have to be assigned to the EF2
type; we suppose that the ADP-ribosylatable structure arising so early in
evolution is of fundamental importance for the elongation process.


PMID: 6776409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Nature. 1980 Sep 18;287(5779):241-4.

Specific dephosphorylation of membrane proteins in Rous sarcoma virus-transformed
chick embryo fibroblasts.

Witt DP, Gordon JA.

Chick embryo fibroblasts (CEF) infected with avian sarcoma virus become rapidly
transformed as a result of expression of the viral src gene in the form of a
single polypeptide of molecular weight 60,000 (pp60src) with protein kinase
activity and suggested preferential association with the plasma membrane. Studies
with normal avian and mammalian cells have revealed the presence of an
antigenically related protein which seems to have similar kinase activity, but
which is present at less than 1% of the levels of virally induced src protein
found in transformed cells. As dynamic phosphorylation is important in numerous
regulatory processes, the phenotypic expression of transformation may arise from 
an imbalance in one or more regulatory mechanisms that are controlled by protein 
phosphorylation. The cell membrane is affected during transformation, including
its phosphotransferase activity. The latter has been shown using isolated
membrane fractions whose properties may be changed during preparation. Therefore,
we have compared the phosphorylation state of individual membrane proteins found 
in intact normal and RSV-transformed cells and report here the identification of 
two heavily phosphorylated, acidic membrane proteins in normal CEF which are
specifically dephosphorylated on transformation by wild-type and
temperature-sensitive Rous sarcoma viruses.


PMID: 6253800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Nature. 1980 Sep 18;287(5779):239-41.

Light-induced changes in membrane current in cone outer segments of tiger
salamander and turtle.

Schnapf JL, McBurney RN.

The peak change in membrane conductance of vertebrate photoreceptors in response 
to the isomerization of a single photopigment has been estimated from recordings 
of membrane potential to be about 8 pS in rods and 6 pS in cones. For rods the
estimate has been largely confirmed by Yau et al. by directly recording membrane 
current responses of rod outer segments to single photoisomerizations. However,
no similar measurements have been reported for cone outer segments. Here, we
report on direct recordings of membrane currents of single cone outer segments
using an extracellular patch electrode. The technique was similar to that
described by Yau et al. for toad rods. We have measured dark currents of up to 40
pA, and calculate that the conductance change resulting from a single
photoisomerization is less than 1 pS.


PMID: 6253799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Nature. 1980 Sep 18;287(5779):237-9.

Active sodium transport by turtle colon via an electrogenic Na-K exchange pump.

Kirk KL, Halm DR, Dawson DC.

Active sodium absorption by a variety of epithelia is abolished by ouabain, but
the obligatory coupling between the movement of sodium and potassium expected
from a basolateral (Na+ + K+) ATPase has not been convincingly demonstrated.
According to the model of Koefoed-Johnsen and Ussing, the asymmetric cation
selectivities of the apical and basolateral membranes prevent basolateral Na-K
exchange from being expressed as opposing transmural ion flows. An additional
consequence of this asymmetry is that the short-circuit current (Isc) cannot be
identified with the current through the sodium-potassium pump. We used the
polyene antibiotic, amphotericin-B, to reduce the resistance and the cation
selectivity of the apical membrane of isolated turtle colon so that the
basolateral membrane current could be dissected into two components: one through 
a barium-sensitive potassium channel and another which represents the current
associated with ouabain-sensitive, electrogenic, Na-K exchange. Comparison of
cation fluxes and short circuit current indicates that in these conditions active
sodium absorption is entirely attributable to an electrogenic Na-K pump with a
stoichiometry of approximately 3Na:2K.


PMID: 6253798  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Nature. 1980 Sep 18;287(5779):235-7.

Endogenous electric field around muscle fibres depends on the Na+-K+ pump.

Betz WJ, Caldwell JH, Ribchester RR, Robinson KR, Stump RF.

We describe here experiments which reveal a new physiological specialization in
the endplate (synaptic) region of skeletal muscle fibres. Using a vibrating
microelectrode which can detect small currents flowing in extracellular fluid, we
have found that the membrane in the endplate region behaves as though a steady
positive current is generated in this location. Current re-enters the fibre in
the extrajunctional region. Further experiments show that this current is
dependent on the activity of the sodium pump. The electric field created by this 
current may be important for long-term interactions between muscle and nerve.


PMID: 6253797  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Nature. 1980 Sep 18;287(5779):230-2.

Regulation by angiotensin II of its receptors in resistance blood vessels.

Gunther S, Gimbrone MA Jr, Alexander RW.

The sensitivity of blood vessels to the vasoconstrictor effects of the hormone
angiotensin II appears to be modulated by the activity of the renin-angiotensin
system. Elevation of circulating angiotensin II levels by sodium depletion or
renal artery stenosis is associated with a diminished pressor response to infused
angiotensin II (refs 1-3). Conversely, the vasocontrictor response to the hormone
is enhanced when endogenous angiotensin II levels are reduced by sodium loading
or nephrectomy. The mechanisms of these varying effects are not known, but
physiological and pharmacological experiments suggest involvement of the vascular
smooth receptor for angiotensin II (refs 5-8). Modification of the interaction
between angiotensin II and its vascular receptor, resulting in altered
responsiveness to the hormone, could occur either via 'prior occupancy' of
receptors by elevated levels of endogenous angiotensin II resulting in fewer free
receptors available to respond to circulating angiotensin II (ref. 5), or,
elevated levels of angiotensin II could result in a decrease in receptor affinity
for the hormone or a decrease in total receptor number in the vascular smooth
muscle cell. We now report the first direct evidence, by radioligand binding
assay, that angiotensin II regulates the number of its own receptors in
resistance vasculature.


PMID: 6253796  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Nature. 1980 Sep 18;287(5779):203-8.

DNA N-glycosylases and UV repair.

Demple B, Linn S.

Repair of some DNA photoproducts can be mediated by glycosylic bond hydrolysis.
Thus, Escherichia coli endonuclease III releases 5,6-hydrated thymines as free
bases, while T4 UV endonuclease releases one of two glycosylic bonds holding
pyrimidine dimers in DNA. In contrast, uninfected E. coli apparently does not
excise pyrimidine dimers via a DNA glycosylase.


PMID: 6253795  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Nature. 1980 Sep 18;287(5779):198-203.

Nucleotide sequence of an avian sarcoma virus oncogene (src) and proposed amino
acid sequence for gene product.

Czernilofsky AP, Levinson AD, Varmus HE, Bishop JM, Tischer E, Goodman HM.

The transforming gene (src) of avian sarcoma virus (ASV) and adjacent regions of 
the viral genome have been isolated by molelcular cloning of viral DNA. Their
nucleotide sequence encompasses the whole of src and the portion of the gene env 
that encodes gp 37, one of two glycoproteins found in the viral envelope. Src
encodes a single, hydrophobic protein with structural features that conform to
previous descriptions descriptions of the gene product (pp60src). It appears that
a single viral protein is responsible for both the initiation and maintenance of 
neoplastic transformation by avian sarcoma virus. Neither src nor its product
bear any obvious structural relationship to several other viral oncogenes and
their encoded proteins. Src is flanked by a repeated nucleotide sequence that may
facilitate frequent deletion of the gene from the viral genome.


PMID: 6253794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Nature. 1980 Sep 18;287(5779):248-50.

The archaebacteria and eukaryotic origins.

Van Valen LM, Maiorana VC.

Critical analysis of the phylogeny of prokaryotes is in its infancy. Woese and
others have made the startling proposal that methane-producing bacteria and a few
others form a phyletically unified group, the Archaebacteria, as old and as
diverse (although not now as numerous) as all other bacteria. The only critique
of this proposal is inadequate. Here we present an alternative view, that the
Archaebacteria were derived from other bacteria and contain the ancestor of a
cell which engulfed others, eventually to become the first eukaryote.


PMID: 6159535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Nature. 1980 Sep 18;287(5779):193-7.

Expression of human fibroblast interferon gene in Escherichia coli.

Derynck R, Remaut E, Saman E, Stanssens P, De Clercq E, Content J, Fiers W.

The human fibroblast interferon gene was inserted in a thermoinducible expression
plasmid under control of the phage lambda PL promoter. The primary translation
products predicted on the basis of the plasmid constructions were hybrid proteins
starting with beta-lactamase or phage MS2 polymerase information followed by the 
total preinterferon. On induction, antiviral activity, whose physico-chemical,
immunological and biological characteristics closely corresponded to those of
authentic human fibroblast interferon, was synthesized. Processing to a size
compatible with mature but unglycosylated authentic product was observed.


PMID: 6159534  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Nature. 1980 Sep 11;287(5778):168-71.

Visualization of genetic recombination intermediates of human adenovirus type 2
DNA from infected HeLa cells.

Wolgemuth DJ, Hsu MT.

The study of recombination in prokaryotes has been facilitated by the
availability of recombinational mutants and simple genetic elements such as
phages and plasmids. These small but defined molecules of DNA have been
especially useful for electron microscopic analysis of structural detail of
molecules undergoing recombination both in vivo and in vitro. A limitation in the
structural analysis of plasmid recombination is the absolute number of
recombining molecules which can be identified and analysed amidst a background of
nonrecombining molecules. This limitation would be of even greater consequence in
studies of genetic recombination in animal cells. We therefore chose
virus-infected animal cells as a model system for the study of the molecular
mechanism of genetic recombination in higher organisms. HeLa cells infected with 
adenovirus serotype 2 (Ad-2) offer several advantages for studying recombination:
(1) the virus contains a small and well characterized genome of about 35
kilobases; (2) a large amount of Ad-2 DNA is accumulated during lytic infection
and host DNA synthesis is suppressed; (3) Ad-2 recombines at a very high
frequency; and (4) similar to phages, animal viruses and Ad-2 in particular are
believed to use many of the host cell's enzymes in necessary metabolic processes,
presumably including recombination. In this study we used electron microscopic
techniques to visualize the structures of in vivo Ad-2 DNA recombination
intermediates. Molecules were observed with structures at putative cross-over
points which were consistent with the molecular mechanism of recombination
proposed by Holliday. In addition, we observed Ad-2 DNA molecules engaged in
recombination which were simultaneously serving as templates for replication
and/or transcription. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first
visualization of in vivo recombination intermediates of discrete DNA molecules
isolated from eukaryotic cells.


PMID: 7432451  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Nature. 1980 Sep 11;287(5778):166-7.

Do 'lipidic particles' represent intermembrane attachment sites?

Miller RG.

Although freeze-fracture electron microscopy is normally analysed with the
presumption that particles represent proteins embedded within the membrane,
particles which appeared to represent inverted lipid micelles within membranes
have been reported. I have now confirmed the occurrence of particles in
protein-free liposomes, but have found that they behave like intermembrane
attachment sites rather than structures within a membrane.


PMID: 7432450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Nature. 1980 Sep 11;287(5778):157-8.

Intracellular study of ionic events underlying intestinal membrane transport of
oligopeptides.

Ward MR, Boyd CA.

It is now clear that after a protein meal much of the alpha-amino nitrogen which 
is absorbed from the small intestinal tract is transported into the intestinal
epithelium across the brush border membrane of the enterocyte in the form of
oligopeptides rather than free amino acids. We report here the results of
electrophysiological experiments using intracellular microelectrodes which allow 
us to add important information concerning the mechanism of membrane transport
which must underlie oligopeptide absorption, in particular with respect to the
role of Na+ in this peptide transport. Such experiments not only reveal the
energetics involved in the major pathway for protein absorption from the
gastrointestinal tract but may also be important for understanding the mechanism 
of action of small peptides in quite different cells, such as the Na+-sensitive
binding of the neurohormone oligopeptide enkephalin to the enkephalin receptors
in the central nervous system.


PMID: 7432449  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Nature. 1980 Sep 11;287(5778):154-7.

Supraoptic neurones of rat hypothalamus are osmosensitive.

Mason WT.

It has been found that cells in the region of the supraoptic nucleus (SON) of the
hypothalamus are sensitive to osmotic stimuli in a physiological range, and have 
studied the mechanism by which the osmotic sensitivity arises. An in vitro
hypothalamic brain slice preparation has been used to make intracellular
recordings from the SON. Cells lying in the SON respond to small increases (9--40
mosmol l-1) in the osmolarity of their external environment with a marked
increase in firing rate. They respond to NaCl and mannitol although not to
glucose. The osmotic sensitivity of SON neurones has a complex origin at both a
pre- and a postsynaptic level, being composed first of depolarization of the
primary SON neurone by an increase of extracellular osmolarity and second by an
increased rate of occurrence of excitatory synaptic events which markedly augment
firing rate. These results are consistent with Jewell and Verney's suggestion
that osmoreception in the mammalian brain occurs in the region of the anterior
hypothalamus, and extends this localization by indicating that the SON neurones
are themselves both directly osmosensitive and part of an osmoreceptive complex.


PMID: 7432448  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Nature. 1980 Sep 11;287(5778):111-7.

Message sequences and short repetitive sequences are interspersed in sea urchin
egg poly(A)+ RNAs.

Costantini FD, Britten RJ, Davidson EH.

At least half of the mass and most of the different single-copy maternal mRNA
sequences in the egg are covalently associated with transcripts of short
repetitive sequences. Only a restricted group of the diverse genomic repeat
families are significantly represented. The messages fall into several hundred
sets, each containing transcripts from a different repeat family.


PMID: 7191945  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


241. Nature. 1980 Sep 11;287(5778):162-4.

Thymic lymphocytes bear a surface antigen which cross-reacts with acetylcholine
receptor.

Fuchs S, Schmidt-Hopfeld I, Tridente G, Tarrab-Hazdai R.

Acetylcholine receptor (AChR) is a major antigen in the neuromuscular disease
myasthenia gravis and it is clear today that the basic defect in this disease is 
brought about by an autoimmune attack on acetylcholine receptors at the
neuromuscular junctions. The involvement of the thymus and its role in myasthenia
have been widely investigated but are still poorly understood. A high incidence
of thymic abnormalities is observed in patients with myasthenia and thymectomy is
beneficial in many cases. Immunological studies have demonstrated the presence of
humoral as well as cellular immune responses towards thymic tissues in myasthenic
patients. There were also some reports that animals immunized with thymic
extracts develop a partial defect in neuromuscular transmission. In spite of all 
these observations, the nature and origin of the association between the thymus
and the neuromuscular junction in myasthenia gravis are still not known. We have 
previously demonstrated an immunological cross-reactivity, both humoral and
cellular, between a thymic component and AChR; such a cross-reactivity could
provide a molecular explanation for the involvement of the thymus in myasthenia
gravis. In this study, we demonstrate, by using immunofluorescence and
radioimmunological techniques, that thymic lymphocytes bear a surface antigen
which binds specifically to antibodies against nicotinic AChR and is thus defined
as an 'AChR-like' antigen. A preliminary report of this study has been published.


PMID: 7001247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Nature. 1980 Sep 11;287(5778):145-6.

Gonadotropin releasing hormone agonists stimulate meiotic maturation of
follicle-enclosed rat oocytes in vitro.

Hillensjö T, LeMaire WJ.

Although the principal function of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) is to
stimulate the pituitary gland to release luteinizing hormone (LH) and
follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), there is evidence that agonistic analogues of
GnRH directly inhibit steroidogenesis in the testis and ovary. On the other hand,
Clark et al. have demonstrated that GnRH and two agonists have a marked
stimulatory effect on prostaglandin synthesis by granulosa cells isolated from
immature rats treated with pregnant mare's serum gonadotropin (PMSG). Stimulation
by these compounds was distinct from that by LH in that no changes in cyclic AMP 
production were detected. Thus it seems important to investigate the effect of
these peptides on other aspects of ovarian function, for example oocyte
maturation. Mammalian oocytes are arrested in the dictyate stage of the first
meiotic prophase, and meiosis (oocyte maturation) normally resumes in
preovulatory follicles as a consequence of the surge of LH and FSH. This
maturation can also be initiated in vitro by the addition of gonadotropins to
isolated preovulatory follicles, and is accompanied by an increase in the
production of lactate. We now report that GnRH and two potent agonists stimulate 
meiosis in vitro in follicle-enclosed oocytes in a dose-dependent and specific
manner, and also cause an increase of lactate accumulation during incubation.


PMID: 7001246  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Nature. 1980 Sep 11;287(5778):160-1.

Tranquillizers can block mitogenesis in 3T3 cells and induce differentiation in
Friend cells.

Clarke GD, Ryan PJ.

Compounds of diverse structure induce murine Friend erythroleukaemia (MEL) cell
differentiation. Seeking a common property, Bernstein reported that the
relationship between activity and octanol/water partition coefficients for
inducers resembled that reported for anaesthetics; moreover, anaesthetics
inhibited induction. Since anaesthetics were known to increase membrane fluidity,
they suggested that inducers might decrease it. Reporting evidence against
unitary theories of anaesthesia, Richards et al. suggested that lipophilic drugs 
competed, according to their individual structure, with membrane lipids for
hydrophobic regions on membrane proteins. The antagonism between pairs of
anaesthetics, anaesthetics and inducers and pairs of inducers, might thus be
explained economically by Richards' anaesthesia model, inducers and lipophilic
drugs acting by similar rather than contrary mechanisms. Lipophilic drugs should,
therefore, induce differentiation. We report here that some tranquillizers do so.
As reported elsewhere for classical inducers, they also block non-differentiating
3T3 cells in pre-S. These findings may have application in cancer chemotherapy.


PMID: 6933311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Nature. 1980 Sep 11;287(5778):147-9.

Macrocortin: a polypeptide causing the anti-phospholipase effect of
glucocorticoids.

Blackwell GJ, Carnuccio R, Di Rosa M, Flower RJ, Parente L, Persico P.

Anti-inflammatory glucocorticoids inhibit prostaglandin (PG) biosynthesis by
preventing arachidonic acid release from phospholipids rather than inhibiting the
cyclooxygenase. As in other cells, this steroid action depends on receptor
occupation and de novo protein/RNA biosynthesis. We have previously shown in
guinea pig perfused lungs and rat peritoneal leukocytes that the effect of
steroids in PG generation is mediated by an uncharacterized 'second messenger'.
Now, we report that this factor (which we have named 'macrocortin') is an
intracellular polypeptide whose release and synthesis are stimulated by steroids.
Macrocortin derived from rat peritoneal leukocytes is very similar to that
released from guinea pig lungs.


PMID: 6893620  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Nature. 1980 Sep 11;287(5778):149-51.

Thyrotropin-releasing hormone--CNS action to stimulate gastric acid secretion.

Taché Y, Vale W, Brown M.

Much physiological and pharmacological evidence has accumulated to suggest that
the autonomic nervous system has an important role in the peripheral modulation
of gastric secretion, although the neurochemical mediators in the brain which
initiate or modulate autonomic input are poorly understood. Recently, the
demonstration that some oligopeptides present in mammalian brain act in the
central nervous system (CNS) to influence profoundly glucoregulation,
thermoregulation, blood pressure, sympathetic outflow, muscular activity of gut
and stress-induced gastric haemorrhagic lesions have led us to examine a possible
role for some of these endogenous brain oligopeptides as chemical messengers
involved in the CNS modulation of gastric secretion. We report here that
thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) acts within the CNS to elicit a
vagus-dependent stimulation of gastric acid secretion.


PMID: 6776408  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Nature. 1980 Sep 11;287(5778):143-4.

Chimaeras of Drosophila melanogaster obtained by injection of haploid nuclei.

Santamaría P, Gans M.

Since the observation by Bridges of a few mosaics containing haploid tissue in
Drosophila, specimens supposedly haploid have rarely been found. A technique for 
the easy production of haploid animals or tissues could have important
applications. We have now successfully designed such a technique by the
production of chimaeras obtained by transplantation of haploid nuclei from a
maternal effect mutant that produces haploid embryos. We have used this technique
to test the proposal of Jack and Judd that the zeste locus of Drosophila
melanogaster cannot repress the activity of unpaired alleles at the white locus.


PMID: 6776407  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Nature. 1980 Sep 11;287(5778):141-2.

A test of evolutionary theories of senescence.

Rose M, Charlesworth B.

Senescence is the post-maturation decline in survivorship and fecundity that
accompanies advancing age. Two main evolutionary theories have been proposed to
account for senescence. (1) The mutation-accumulation theory. Deleterious
mutations exerting their effects only late in life would tend to accumulate,
because of their minimal effects on fitness. More precisely, exclusively
late-acting deleterious mutations will attain higher equilibrium frequencies
under mutation--selection balance than will mutations that act early, resulting
in lower mean values for fitness components late in life (ref. 3, p. 218).
Medawar emphasized the possibility that this effect would be enhanced by
selection of modifiers that postpone the age of onset of genetic diseases. (2)
The pleiotropy theory. Williams suggested that many of the genes with beneficial 
effects on early fitness components have pleiotropic deleterious effects on late 
fitness components, but are nevertheless favoured by natural selection. (These
theories are based on the decline with age in the effect of age-specific
fitness-component changes on total fitness (ref. 3, pp. 206--214 and refs 4, 5). 
Either or both of these theories could apply in any particular population.)
Selection experiments in Drosophila and Tribolium support the pleiotropy theory, 
although one such experiment gave results that only bordered on significance, but
the mutation--accumulation theory has never been tested. The present results
provide evidence for the pleiotropy theory, but do not support the
mutation--accumulation theory.


PMID: 6776406  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Nature. 1980 Sep 11;287(5778):171-2.

Indomethacin and inhibition of protein kinase reactions.

Goueli SA, Ahmed K.

Indomethacin, an inhibitor of prostaglandin biosynthesis, is useful in studies
aimed at understanding the metabolism and physiological function of
prostaglandins. A recent report showing that indomethacin at 10(-7) M potently
inhibits the cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinases (cAMP-PrK) from ileal mucosa in
the presence or absence of cyclic AMP, suggests how indomethacin may antagonize
prostaglandin action on ileal mucosa. It also suggests that indomethacin might be
useful in studying the properties and functions of protein kinase reactions.
Inhibitors of prostaglandin biosynthesis, such as sodium salicylate and
acetylsalicylate, at concentrations near 10(-2) M, have been shown to inhibit
bovine diaphragm protein kinase only in the presence of cAMP, while stimulating
it in the absence of cAMP. We report here that complete inhibition of cAMP-PrKs
by indomethacin requires a concentration of 10(-3) M and is not tissue-specific, 
and that the effect of indomethacin is concentration dependent above 2 x 10(-4) M
for the cAMP-dependent, and above 10(-3) M for cAMP-independent PrKs. These
results contrast previous ones.


PMID: 6253792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Nature. 1980 Sep 11;287(5778):164-5.

Epstein--Barr virus-induced cell fusion.

Bayliss GJ, Wolf H.

Serological and molecular biological studies have shown an association between
Epstein--Barr virus (EBV) and nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Although it has been
shown that the epithelioid tumour cells carry EBV genomes, they are apparently
devoid of receptors for EBV (H.W., unpublished observations). Other have
suggested that fusion of EBV carrying cells with epithelial cells may be the mode
of entry of the virus into cells unable to absorb the virus and that this may be 
mediated by one of the known syncytium-forming viruses which inhabit the
respiratory tract (for example, members of the paramyxovirus group). de Thé and
colleagues suggested that intercellular bridges could be seen in NPC tumour
material. We have developed a technique which permits the preparation of stable
monolayers of viable human lymphoblastoid cell lines. Using this technique we
have now demonstrated that EBV can induce fusion between EBV-superinfected
lymphoblastoid cells and cells devoid of EBV receptors.


PMID: 6253791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Nature. 1980 Sep 11;287(5778):158-9.

Requirement of nerve growth factor for development of substance P-containing
sensory neurones.

Otten U, Goedert M, Mayer N, Lembeck F.

The protein nerve growth factor (NGF) is known to be essential for the maturation
and maintenance of adrenergic neurones and for the development of sensory
neurones during critical stages of embryonic life. The investigation of the
physiological importance of NGF for the development of sensory neurones has been 
hampered so far by the lack of biochemical marker substances for these neurones. 
The demonstration that the undecapeptide substance P(SP) is present in sensory
neurones suggests that it might be such a marker. SP is synthesized in dorsal
root ganglia (DRG) and transported to the terminals of C-fibres located in the
dorsal horn of the spinal cord and in the skin. Its release can be demonstrated
from the central and peripheral endings of sensory nerve fibres which seem to
have an important role in pain perception. We have investigated the effects of
NGF and of purified anti-NGF antibodies on the content of SP in rat DRG and in
their respective target organs, namely the spinal cord and the skin. The effects 
on sympathetic ganglia were included in order to control the effectiveness of
both NGF and its antibody. We report here that NGF leads to an increase in SP in 
spinal ganglia, as previously shown by Kessler and Black. However, in contrast to
these authors, we describe that the administration of anti-NGF antibodies
produces a marked reduction of the SP content in sensory neurones and in their
respective nerve terminals.


PMID: 6159533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Nature. 1980 Sep 11;287(5778):151-2.

Evidence that substance P is a neurotransmitter in the myenteric plexus.

Morita K, North RA, Katayama Y.

Substance P (SP) is an undecapeptide originally isolated from the gut and since
shown to occur within neurones in several parts of the peripheral and central
nervous systems. Immunohistochemical studies indicate an exceedingly dense
network of SP-containing nerves within the myenteric plexus of the guinea pig
ileum. These nerves are intrinsic to the gut wall and can release SP to contract 
the longitudinal muscle layer. We have previously shown that SP directly
depolarizes myenteric neurones and that this depolarization has a time course and
ionic mechanism similar to the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential (e.p.s.p.) 
which can be produced by electrical stimulation of presynaptic nerves within the 
myenteric ganglia. We wondered whether SP might mediate this slow synaptic
potential. We report here that the SP depolarization and the slow e.p.s.p. are
reversibly depressed by chymotrypsin, an enzyme which degrades SP, although the
responses to acetylcholine, serotonin and an unknown hyperpolarizing transmitter 
are unaffected. The results provide direct evidence that a peptide can mediate
chemical transmission between neurones in the mammalian nervous system.


PMID: 6159532  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Nature. 1980 Sep 11;287(5778):117-22.

Structure of a family of rat amylase genes.

MacDonald RJ, Crerar MM, Swain WF, Pictet RL, Thomas G, Rutter WJ.

The sequences of two cloned rat pancreatic amylase cDNAs comprising 95% of the
mRNA sequence are reported. Analysis of cloned rat genomic DNA fragments using
cloned cDNA probes indicates that the rat genome contains multiple closely
related amylase genes in which the cDNA sequences are distributed within a region
9 kilobases in length and are interrupted by at least seven intervening
sequences.


PMID: 6159531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Nature. 1980 Sep 11;287(5778):152-4.

Neurotransmitter turnover in rat striatum is correlated with morphine
self-administration.

Smith JE, Co C, Freeman ME, Sands MP, Lane JD.

Drugs of abuse probably exert their reinforcing effects through 'reward' pathways
in the central nervous system (CNS). Neuronal systems mediating opiate
reinforcement have been investigated using pharmacological and electrolytic
lesion procedures. Drugs that interfere with catecholaminergic and cholinergic
neuronal activity decrease intravenous (i.v.) morphine self-administration in
monkeys and rats. Electrolytic lesion procedures in rats have demonstrated that
the medial forebrain bundle and caudate nucleus are important in maintaining i.v.
morphine self-administration. We have now carried out a direct investigation of
striatal (caudate nucleus, putamen and globus pallidus) neuronal systems. We show
here that striatal catecholaminergic systems are important in mediating opiate
reinforcement, and present direct evidence for the involvement of
neurotransmitter systems in morphine reward.


PMID: 6107854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Nature. 1980 Sep 4;287(5777):84-5.

Do the chromosomes of the kiwi provide evidence for a monophyletic origin of the 
ratites?

de Boer LE.

The extensive literature on the origin of the ratites focuses mainly on three
questions: are the ratites mono- or polyphyletic, did they evolve from flying
ancestors, and are they primitive or advanced? Opinion tends to accept a common
descent from flying ancestors for the large ratites (for a summary of ideas see
ref. 1). They would have evolved on Gondwanaland some time in the Cretaceous and 
have become dispersed over the southern continents after its fragmentation.
However, the position of the small New Zealand kiwis, in many respects the most
pecular of all birds, is still a matter for conjecture. The chromosome
complements of the large ratites have been found to be remarkably uniform. The
chromosome set of the kiwi, described here, clearly links up with these, which
may be recorded as another indication for monophyly of all ratites. It also
indicates that we are dealing here with very ancient karyotypes.


PMID: 7412880  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Nature. 1980 Sep 4;287(5777):76-9.

Acetylation of histone H4 and its role in chromatin structure and function.

Chahal SS, Matthews HR, Bradbury EM.

Histone h4 is a highly conserved structural component of the nucleosome subunit
of chromatin. The activation of chromatin is accompanied by changes in structure 
which may be caused by histone modification or by interactions of specific
non-histone proteins, or both. Histone H4 can be modified by acetylation and this
modification has been correlated with chromosome assembly and with transcription.
We have now tested these correlations by studying H4 acetate content as a
function of the cell cycle using the naturally synchronous cell cycle in Physarum
polycephalum. The results show two clear correlations: (1) tetra-acetylated H4
correlates with transcription; (2) highly acetylated H4 (2 to 4 acetates per
molecule) is inversely correlated with H1 phosphorylation and initiation of
chromosome condensation in prophase. The results are consistent with turnover of 
di-acetylated H4 during chromosome assembly in S phase.


PMID: 7412879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Nature. 1980 Sep 4;287(5777):64-5.

Solubilizaiton of the choline transport system and re-incorporation into
artificial membranes.

King RG, Marchbanks RM.

The carrier-mediated transport of choline has been described in several types of 
cell and at isolated synaptic terminals. The operation of the caarrier seems to
be a rate-controlling factor for the synthesis of acetylcholine at the synaptic
terminals that release this neurotransmitter. The molecular mechanism by which
the carrier transports choline is unknown and difficult to investigate because at
present it can only be studied in the complex environment of the natural membrane
in which it is situated. Furthermore, such studies are hampered by the results of
metabolic activity inside the cell itself. The resolution of these difficulties
by the separation, purification and examination of carriers in defined systems is
hindered by the problem of assaying its activity during the purification
procedure. We describe here the separation of the choline carrier from the
membrane and its re-incorporation into unilamellar liposomes with retention of
its functional activity, thus enabling its purification and examination in
isolation to be undertaken.


PMID: 7412878  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Nature. 1980 Sep 4;287(5777):56-8.

Calcium localization in the rat neurohypophysis.

Shaw FD, Morris JF.

Neurosecretory nerve endings in the rat neurohypophysis release their hormones by
exocytosis subsequent to an influx of calcium from the external medium. The nerve
endings are characterized by the presence of neurosecretory granules,
mitochondria, occasional vacuoles, and a population of microvesicles similar in
appearance to spherical synaptic vesicles. The function of the microvesicles has,
for a long time, been uncertain. In view of evidence that coated microvesicles
isolated from cerebral cortex are capable of ATP-dependent calcium accumulation, 
a method has now been developed for the visualization of calcium in the
neurohypophysis at the ultrastructural level. With this technique, calcium
precipitates are consistently seen in the microvesicles, mitochondria and glial
cell (pituicyte) nuclei. In addition, the pituicyte cytoplasm and perivascular
space show a diffuse precipitate which can be removed by washing the tissue prior
to fixation. The function of the microvesicles might therefore be to sequester
calcium within the nerve endings.


PMID: 7412877  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Nature. 1980 Sep 4;287(5777):43-4.

Perceptual learning specific for orientation and spatial frequency.

Fiorentini A, Berardi N.

Several examples of 'perceptual learning' (improvement of some perceptual task
with practice) have been reported. These studies are of great interest for
neurological research because they demonstrate plasticity of the nervous system. 
Even for apparently basic perceptual tasks, such as visual acuity or vernier
acuity, practice can facilitate a neural change which enhances performance. One
question in this field is where does this learning occur? Indications about the
possible neural site of a learning process may be derived from its specificity
for some particular stimulus parameters. For instance, there is a hint that
learning in global stereopsis may occur at a stage where visual information is
processed by mechanisms selectively sensitive to different stimulus orientations.
We report here an experiment on perceptual learning in the discrimination of
gratings of different waveform. Our findings show that learning is specific for
both the orientation and the spatial frequency of the practice stimulus.


PMID: 7412873  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Nature. 1980 Sep 4;287(5777):49-50.

Involvement of the B-lymphoid system in chronic myelogenous leukaemia.

Martin PJ, Najfeld V, Hansen JA, Penfold GK, Jacobson RJ, Fialkow PJ.

Studies with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) isoenzymes have
demonstrated that chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML) is a clonal disorder of
pluripotent haematopoietic stem cells which are capable of differentiation to
myeloid cells, monocytes, erthrocytes and platelets. It has been observed
recently in G6PD heterozygous patients with chronic phase CML that the
non-E-rosetting lymphocytes were restricted to a single enzyme type, indicating
that some lymphoid cells must also arise from the leukaemic clone. Surface or
cytoplasmic immunoglobulin could be detected in up to 46% of the cells of these
isolated non-T-lymphocyte populations, which suggested that cells from the CML
clone were capable of differentiating into B lymphocytes. To investigate this
further, we established Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-transformed B-lymphoblastoid
cell lines derived from patients with CML and studied chromosomes and G6PD to
determine whether progenitor B lymphocytes for any of the cell lines had
originated from the CML clone. We report here direct evidence that
immunoglobulin-synthesizing B lymphocytes can arise from the CML stem cell clone.


PMID: 6968038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Nature. 1980 Sep 4;287(5777):70-2.

Identification of the lethal target of benzylpenicillin in Streptococcus faecalis
by in vivo penicillin binding studies.

Fontana R, Canepari P, Satta G, Coyette J.

The mode of bacterial killing by penicillins is still unknown in spite of many
studies on the subject. The recent finding of multiple penicillin binding
proteins (PBPs) in sensitive bacteria and the possibility of analysing the
binding of the antibiotic to exponentially growing cells have provided new
directions for investigating this problem. Sensitivity to lethal and other
effects of penicillin varies very significantly with the conditions of growth of 
the cells. If PBPs were the penicillin target, changes in conditions of growth
causing variations in penicillin sensitivity should be accompanied by changes in 
these proteins. Furthermore, if one of PBPs could be identified as the killing
target, it could possibly be demonstrated to show changes in cells growing in
different conditions. We show here that in Streptococcus faecalis ATCC 9790
changes in conditions of growth are accompanied by changes in PBPs. Furthermore, 
in the presence of the minimal dose of 14C-benzylpenicillin causing complete
inhibition of cell growth, 100% of the total radioactivity is bound to a single
protein (PBP 3).


PMID: 6774266  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Nature. 1980 Sep 4;287(5777):44-6.

T-cell specificity for H-2 and Ir gene phenotype correlates with the phenotype of
thymic antigen-presenting cells.

Longo DL, Schwartz RH.

Experiments with chimaeric animals have demonstrated that the H-2 restriction
specificity and immune response (Ir) gene phenotype of the T cell is acquired
during development in the thymus. The mechanism by which this process occurs is
unclear. One level of obligate expression of H-2 and Ir gene products is on the
surface of antigen-presenting cells (APCs) which come from bone marrow
precursors. We have now examined the turnover of APCs in the thymuses of F1 leads
to parent (P) radiation-induced bone marrow chimaeras and found that APCs of
donor phenotype appear at about 2 months after reconstitution. If the peripheral 
T-cell population is depleted after this time, new T cells emerging from the
parental thymus (containing F1 APCs) behaving like F1 T cells, suggesting that
cells from the bone marrow can influence thymic-directed T-cell differentiation. 
The thymic APC is an attractive condidate to play such a part in the development 
of the T-cell repertoire.


PMID: 6774265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Nature. 1980 Sep 4;287(5777):82-4.

Structural and functional diversity in 4-alpha-helical proteins.

Weber PC, Salemme FR.

Protein crystallographic studies show that many structural arrangements appear as
common features among proteins which are otherwise unrelated in sequence or
function. One of the more recently recognized recurring protein structural motifs
is a nearly parallel arrangement of four alpha-helices to form a sequentially
connected left-twisted bundle. We describe here the geometrical properties of
these structures and suggest how they relate to the functional and aggregate
properties of these molecules.


PMID: 6251384  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Nature. 1980 Sep 4;287(5777):79-82.

The putative mRNA for subunit II of human cytochrome c oxidase starts directly at
the translation initiator codon.

Ojala DK, Montoya J, Attardi G.

The gene for subunit II of cytochrome c oxidase (COII) in human mitochondrial DNA
(mtDNA) is immediately contiguous, on its 5'-end side, to a tRNAAsp gene. Since
all eukaryotic mRNAs so far analysed have been shown to have a noncoding stretch,
which is presumably used for ribosome attachment on the 5'-side of the coding
sequence, it was resonable to ask whether, in the case of the human COII mRNA,
the above function is performed by the tRNAAsp sequence or a portion of it, or
whether this mRNA lacks a 5' noncoding stretch. We have sequenced a 5'-end
proximal segment of the putative COII mRNA from HeLa cells of about 30
nucleotides and have aligned it with the COII coding sequence in human mtDNA. Our
results show that this RNA starts directly at the AUG initiator codon.


PMID: 6251383  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Nature. 1980 Sep 4;287(5777):74-6.

Calcium-dependent phosphorylation of histone H3 in butyrate-treated HeLa cells.

Whitlock JP Jr, Augustine R, Schulman H.

Ca2+ is prominant in the control of cell proliferation and function. However, the
biochemical mechanism(s) mediating its effects on nuclear events is unknown. We
report here that Ca2+, at physiological concentrations, stimulates the
phosphorylation of histone H3 by an endogenous protein kinase in HeLa cell
nuclei. Also, pretreatment of cells with Na butyrate, which increases histone
acetylation, selectively increases the susceptability of histone H3 to
phosphorylation by the protein kinase. Our results reveal a potential link
between histone H3 acetylation and phosphorylation, modifications which are
thought to have important effects on chromatin structure and function and suggest
a possible mechanism whereby stimuli at the cell surface (such as hormones,
mitogens and drugs) may influence biochemical events at the nuclear level;
changes in the intracellular Ca2+ concentration may influence the phosphorylation
of chromosomal proteins, mediated by Ca2+ -dependent kinases in th nucleus.


PMID: 6251382  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Nature. 1980 Sep 4;287(5777):62-3.

The sodium channel and intracellular H+ blockage in squid axons.

Wanke E, Carbone E, Testa PL.

Sodium channels in plasma membranes can be blocked by a large variety of toxins
and local anaesthetics. This property, however, is not confined to relatively
large molecules. For instance, extracellularly applied small ions like hydrogen
may also prevent the passive transport of permeant cations across open Na+
channels. A typical feature of this phenomenon is that the blocking action of
hydrogen is gradually relieved by increasing the voltage applied across the
membrane. Although in the frog skeletal muscle there is no clear evidence for a
similar intracellular action, we report here for the squid giant axon remarkable 
effects on the ionic permeability of Na+ channels when the internal perfusate
contains an excess of protons. Analysing the action of low pH inside and outside 
the fibre in terms of a kinetic model, we could conclude that Na+ channels in
squid axons are controlled by two independent groups: one with an apparent pKa of
4.6 and the other with pKa 5.8, the former feeling one-fifth of the applied
membrane potential, the latter three-quarters. As with pharmacological agents, we
also show that the voltage-dependence of the H+ blockage is not affected by the
presence of the inactivation gate.


PMID: 6251380  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Nature. 1980 Sep 4;287(5777):60-2.

Action of formamidine pesticides on octopamine receptors.

Evans PD, Gee JD.

The formamidines are a structurally novel group of pesticides of growing
importance in the control of mites, cattle ticks and certain orders of insects
which have become resistant to conventional acaricides and insecticides. Their
mode of action is complex with dose-dependent lethal and subletahal effects. At
sublethal levels they cause behavioural changes in the target pest species (for
example in feeding and in mating behaviours), changes which are responsible for
the protective effects on crops and livestock. Although many suggestions have
been made for the underlying biochemical mechanism, including inhibition of
monoamine oxidase activity, uncoupling of respiration and blockade of
neuromuscular transmission, no direct evidence has been presented. Another
possibility is interaction with octopamine receptors in the central nervous
system. We report here that the formamidine acaricide/insecticide, chlordimeform 
(CDM), and its demethylated deivative can mimic the actions of octopamine at the 
locust neuromuscular junctions. This gives the clearest evidence to date of the
site of action of the formamidines and indicates a novel mode of action for these
pesticides.


PMID: 6251379  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Nature. 1980 Sep 4;287(5777):58-60.

Role of corticosteroid-binding globulin in interaction of corticosterone with
uterine and brain progesterone receptors.

Al-Khouri H, Greenstein BD.

The central actions of the steroid hormone progesterone remain an enigma.
However, there is no doubt that this hormone has a vital role in the control of
sexual function and behaviour in many species, including man. Furthermore,
progesterone may be involved in the premenstrual and postpartum syndromes. It
would therefore be very useful to know the role and mechanism of action of
progesterone in the brain. We now show that there are differences between
progesterone receptors in brain and uterus, and possibly in the distribution of
the serum progesterone-binding protein, corticosteroid-binding globulin (CBG),
which may enter uterine but not brain cells.


PMID: 6251378  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Nature. 1980 Sep 4;287(5777):68-70.

An interferon-induced cellular enzyme is incorporated into virions.

Wallach D, Revel M.

The mechanisms by which interferon inhibits viral growth are only partially
understood. Several enzymatic activities increase in cells shortly after
treatment with interferon. One of these enzymes, oligo-isoadenylate synthetase,
synthesizes (2'-5') isoadenylate oligomers which strongly stimulate the activity 
of a cellular ribonuclease, RNase F (ref. 7). Interferon also significantly
increases the activity of a protein kinase which phosphorylates the initiation
factor eIF-2 and can inhibit in vitro protein synthesis. Such interferon-induced 
enzymes, which affect RNA and protein metabolism, might be responsible for many
of its effects on viruses. Indeed, inhibition of viral protein and RNA synthesis 
appears to have a major role in the antiviral state. We have now investigated
possible interactions of the two enzymes with viral constituents during the
course of infection and found that in two different membrane-coated RNA viruses, 
vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) and Moloney murine leukaemia virus (M-MuLV),
there is an accumulation of the 2'-5') oligo-isoadenylate synthetase (E) in the
virions. Most of the enzyme is bound to the virion ribonucleoprotein core. The
incorporation of E into the virions suggests a direct involvement of the enzyme
in regulation of virus functions.


PMID: 6157996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Nature. 1980 Sep 4;287(5777):51-2.

Enzymatic assembly of slow reacting substance.

Jakschik BA, Lee LH.

When basophils or mast cells are stimulated by a specific antigen they release
chemical mediators, including a potent bronchoconstrictor, slow reacting
substance of anaphylaxis (SRS-A). The structure of SRS from a mouse mastocytoma
and rat basophilic leukaemia (RBL-1) cells has been identified as a thioether or 
arachidonic acid and glutathione [not a thioether of cystene as was originally
thought]. SRS has been named leukotriene (LT) C and may be formed by a novel
lipoxygenase pathway which also synthesizes 5,6-oxido-7,9,11,14-icosatetraenoic
acid (LTA) and 5,12-dihydroxy-6,8,10,14-icosatetraenoic acid (LTB). Homogenates
of RBL-1 cells, when incubated with C-arachidonic acid, form
5-hydroxy-icosatetraenoic acid (5-HETE) and 5,12-dihydroxy- and
5,6-dihydroxy-icosatetraenoic acid. The latter is the spontaneous breakdown
product of the labile intermediate LTA. Formation of both compounds is stimulated
by calcium. We have now produced biologically active SRS in a cell-free system
generated from RBL-1 cells. Glutathione was essential for SRS synthesis and
calcium stimulated its formation.


PMID: 6106162  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Nature. 1980 Aug 28;286(5776):902-4.

In vivo electrochemical detection of catechols in the neostriatum of
anaesthetized rats: dopamine or DOPAC?

Gonon F, Buda M, Cespuglio R, Jouvet M, Pujol JF.

Electroanalytical techniques for the in vivo measurement of neurotransmitters in 
brain tissue have been applied especially to the catecholamines, which are easily
oxidizable. Measurements are, however, complicated by the presence of ascorbic
acid (AA) in brain tissue. Lane et al. have been able to circumvent this problem,
at least in part, by the application of differential pulse voltametry (DPV) to a 
surface-modified platinum electrode, obtaining distinct oxidation current peaks
in recordings from the rat neostriatum which are attributed to AA and to dopamine
(DA), respectively, but which are also unstable. We have recently described a new
type of electrode, consisting of a pyrolytic carbon fibre 8 micrometers thick and
0.5 mm long. We now report that the DPV method used in conjunction with an
electrochemical treatment of this electrode yields stable and reproducible peaks 
in which catecholamines and AA are resolved from each other. Moreover,
pharmacological investigations suggest that the catecholamine peak measured in
vivo in the rat neostriatum should be attributed to 3, 4-dihydroxyphenylacetic
acid (DOPAC), suggesting that our technique may be a useful means of following
dopaminergic activity in vivo.


PMID: 7412872  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Nature. 1980 Aug 28;286(5776):899-902.

Projection patterns of single physiologically characterized optic tract fibres in
cat.

Bowling DB, Michael CR.

Because the axons of retinal ganglion cells are the sole channels carrying
information from the eye, the organization of their central projections is
important in visual processing. However, their detailed destinations and patterns
of synaptic distribution at the level of single, functionally identified cells
are not known. Most anatomical studies involve populations of cells or fibres and
do not examine their physiological properties; physiological studies involving
intracellular recording and injection of marker substances into cell bodies of
single cells do not reveal distant axon terminals because the markers stain the
fibres for only a few millimetres from the perikarya. To examine the central
projections of retinal ganglion cells we have impaled single optic tract fibres
near their sites of termination and injected them iontophoretically with the
marker enzyme horseradish peroxidase (HRP). We now report that this method has
revealed the thalamic and midbrain ramifications of single physiologically
characterized axons. The individual optic-tract fibres branch repeatedly, sending
collaterals to the superior colliculus (SC), the medial interlaminar nucleus
(MIN), and to one or more laminae within the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus
(LGNd). In different nuclei the single axons form arborizations of
characteristically different shapes and distribute their synaptic terminals in
columns (LGNd), sheets (MIN) or widely spread patches (SC).


PMID: 7412871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Nature. 1980 Aug 28;286(5776):888-91.

Human cell-surface glycoprotein with unusual properties.

Omary MB, Trowbridge IS, Minowada J.

We report here the identification of human cell-surface glycoprotein with unusual
and interesting properties. We initially detected this glycoprotein on the
surface of cultured human haematopoietic cell lines by means of a monoclonal
antibody. Although it is expressed on all cultured human haematopoietic cell
lines tested, including the inducible promyelocytic tumour cell line HL-60 (ref. 
1), it is not present in readily detectable amounts on most normal or leukaemic
human haematopoietic cells. HL-60 cells, on exposure in vitro to appropriate
chemical inducers, undergo morphological and functional differentiation along the
granulocytic pathway or into macrophage-like cells. One consequence of in vitro
induction in the specific loss of the glycoprotein from the surface of HL-60
cells. The molecule does not, however, seem to be a highly tissue-specific
differentiation antigen because it is also found on human tumour cell lines
derived from non-haematopoietic tissues. Rather, its expression seems to be
related to cell proliferation. Preliminary chemical characterization suggests
that the glycoprotein maybe identical to the abnormal glycoprotein previously
reported by Bramwell and Harris to be associated with malignancy.


PMID: 7412870  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Nature. 1980 Aug 28;286(5776):886-8.

Antiquity of the vertebrate pattern of activity metabolism and its possible
relation to vertebrate origins.

Ruben JA, Bennett AF.

Vertebrates generally possess well developed capacities for anaerobic metabolism,
resulting in formation of lactic acid. Those capacities have traditionally been
interpreted in terms of adaptation to hypoxic environments or to special
situations such as diving. However, anaerobic metabolsim in striated muscle
tissue is frequently a major source of ATP utilized during periods of intense
activity. The evolutionary significance of anaerobically supported activity has
not been discussed, although the interrelationships of capacities for aerobiosis 
and activity have received considerable attention. We present here evidence that 
the pattern of activity metabolism utilized by extant species probably dates back
to the earliest vertebrates. It is also postulated that the evolution of
extensive capacity for anaerobically supported burst activity may have been
closely related to the evolution of vertebrates from invertebrate chordates.


PMID: 7412869  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Nature. 1980 Aug 28;286(5776):845-50.

Free calcium in heart muscle at rest and during contraction measured with Ca2+
-sensitive microelectrodes.

Marban E, Rink TJ, Tsien RW, Tsien RY.

Direct measurements of free Ca2+ in heart cells are needed for an understanding
of the regulation of contractility. We developed and used Ca2+ -sensitive
microelectrodes with fine tips, stable properties and ample sensitivity to free
Ca2+ in the sub-micromolar range. In quiescent ventricular muscle, measurements
which passed tests for electrode sealing and cell viability gave a mean free Ca2+
concentration of 0.26 microM. During contractures, we recorded Ca2+ transients
rising as high as 10 microM. In studying the effects of catecholamines on free
Ca2+ and force, we found evidence that adrenaline can reduce myofibrillar Ca2+
sensitivity in intact heart muscle.


PMID: 7412868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Nature. 1980 Aug 28;286(5776):895-6.

Different target antigens for T-cell subsets acting synergistically in vivo.

Wolters EA, Benner R.

After allogenic transplantation of lymphoid cells into immunologically
incompetent recipients, a graft-versus-host (GvH) reaction can occur. The
original observation that the GvH reaction is mediated by two interacting types
of T cell has led to the proposal that T cells must be subdivided into two
subpopulations according to life span and migratory properties. These consist of 
T1 cells, which are short-lived, sessile cells sensitive to adult thymectomy
(ATx), and T2 cells, which are long-lived, recirculating cells sensitive to
anti-thymocyte serum (ATS). T1-T2 cooperation has also been demonstrated in vitro
in murine and rat mixed lymphocyte culture. The question arises as to whether
these T-cell subpopulations are activated by different or identical parts of the 
major histocompatibility complex (MHC). We report here that for optimal
development of the anti-host immune response in a murine GvH reaction, T2 cells
have to be amplified by T1 cells. The former cells are activated by a set of MHC 
gene products that are expressed mainly on immunological cells (H-2I-coded
antigens), whereas the latter recognize a different set of MHC gene products that
are expressed on almost all cells of the mouse (H-2K/D-coded antigens).


PMID: 6968037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Nature. 1980 Aug 28;286(5776):897-9.

An immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene is altered in two T-cell clones.

Forster A, Hobart M, Hengartner H, Rabbitts TH.

Thymus-derived lymphocytes (T cells) show a high degree of discrimination in
their responses to various antigens, very similar to the specificity repertoire
of antibody-producing B cells. The nature of the T-cell receptor which mediates
antigen recognition is obscure, but the ability to discriminate between antigenic
specificities implies a range of receptor specificities. Many serological and
genetic data suggest that T-cell receptors use the immunoglobulin heavy (H)-chain
variable (V) region genes but do not carry the antigenic determinants of the
immunoglobulin H-chain constant (C) regions; they also do not seem to carry
conventional light (L)-chain V- or C-region determinants. In B cells and
derivatives the expression of immunoglobulin genes is manifested, at the DNA
level, by an alteration of the restriction enzyme patterns of both the H and L
immunoglobulin genes. Specifically, V-gene integration involves joining of a V
gene with a J segment (in the case of the H chain probably through an
intermediate D segment) so that sites for restriction enzymes will undergo
changes in cells in which V-J joining has occurred. Here, we describe Southern
filter hybridization experiments using C mu and C kappa probes on the DNA of
individual T-cell clones from mice, and present evidence for alteration of
sequences adjacent to the C mu gene in the cells.


PMID: 6774263  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Nature. 1980 Aug 28;286(5776):854-60.

The 5' ends of Drosophila heat shock genes in chromatin are hypersensitive to
DNase I.

Wu C.

Many specific sites in Drosophila chromatin are hypersensitive to DNase I. The
positions of such sites were mapped along the regions of the genome coding for
two heat shock proteins. Such sites lie at the 5' ends of heat shock genes and
may function as elements for recognition by molecules which regulate gene
activity.


PMID: 6774262  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Nature. 1980 Aug 28;286(5776):850-3.

Deletion of immunoglobulin heavy chain genes from expressed allelic chromosome.

Yaoita Y, Honjo T.

We have studied the organization of immunoglobulin heavy-chain genes in a gamma
2b-chain (BALB/c allotype)-producing myeloma BKC F1 # 15 induced in a F1 mouse
between C57BL and BALB/c. Southern blot hybridization studies using cloned mu,
gamma 1 and gamma 2b-chain genes as probes demonstrate that the mu- and gamma
1-chain genes of the expressed chromosome are deleted while these genes of the
unexpressed chromosome are retained. The gamma 2b-chain gene of the expressed
allele is rearranged while that gene of the unexpressed allele seems unchanged,
as do the gamma 2a-chain genes. These results support the allelic deletion
mechanism in heavy-chain class switch and the order of H chain genes.


PMID: 6774261  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Nature. 1980 Aug 28;286(5776):904-6.

Insulin trigger, cyclic AMP-dependent activation and phosphorylation of a plasma 
membrane cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase.

Marchmont RJ, Houslay MD.

Regulation of blood glucose levels by the liver is primarily achieved by the
action of two peptide hormones, insulin and glucagon, which bind to specific
receptors associated with the hepatocyte plasma membrane. Whilst the molecular
action of glucagon at the level of the cell plasma membrane in activating
adenylate cyclase is relatively well understood, we know little, if anything, of 
the molecular consequences of insulin occupying its receptor. We demonstrate here
that insulin, at physiologically relevant concentrations, can trigger the cyclic 
AMP-dependent activation and phosphorylation of a low Km cyclic AMP
phosphodiesterase attached to the liver plasma membrane. Such an effect may in
part explain the ability of insulin to inhibit the increase in cellular cyclic
AMP content that glucagon alone produces by activation of adenylate cyclase. Our 
observation that basal, intracellular cyclic AMP levels are insufficient to allow
insulin to activate the cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase, yet those cyclic AMP levels
achieved after exposure of the cells to glucagon are sufficient, gives a
molecular rationale to Butcher and Sutherland's proposal that it is necessary to 
first elevate cellular cyclic AMP levels before they can be depressed by insulin.


PMID: 6251375  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Nature. 1980 Aug 28;286(5776):860-5.

Nucleotide sequence of the yeast plasmid.

Hartley JL, Donelson JE.

The nucleotide sequence of the yeast DNA plasmid (2 mu circle) from Saccharomyces
cerevisiae strain A364A D5 has been determined. The plasmid contains 6,318 base
pairs, including two identical inverted repeats of 599 base pairs. Possible
functions are suggested, and attributes of an improved vector for cloning foreign
DNAs in yeast are discussed.


PMID: 6251374  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Nature. 1980 Aug 28;286(5776):893-5.

Biosynthesis of hepatitis B virus surface antigen in Escherichia coli.

Charnay P, Gervais M, Louise A, Galibert F, Tiollais P.

Hepatitis B is a widespread viral disease. In the absence of cell cultures
capable of propagating the virus (HBV) an efficient vaccine has been prepared
from viral envelopes isolated from the plasma of chronic carriers. The major
polypeptide of the envelope is one of molecular weight 25,000 which carries the
surface antigen (HBsAg). Therefore, the biosynthesis of this polypeptide in
Escherichia coli may offer an alternative procedure to produce HbsAg free from
human proteins. Recently, the HBV genome has been cloned in E.coli. Determination
of its primary structure allowed the localization of the gene (called gene S)
coding for HBsAg and the synthesis of the core antigen in E.coli has been
reported. We have constructed a derivative of bacteriophage lambda carrying a
fusion between the beta-galactosidase gene (lacZ) and the HBsAg coding sequence
(lambdalacHBs-1). Infection of E.coli with lambdalacHBs-1 leads to the
biosynthesis of a polypeptide of molecular weitht 138,000 carrying antigenic
determinants of HBV surface antigen.


PMID: 6157992  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Nature. 1980 Aug 21;286(5775):819-21.

Removal of sialic acid from cardiac sarcolemma does not affect contractile
function in electrically stimulated guinea pig left atria.

Harding SE, Halliday J.

Calcium is essential for the maintenance of contraction in the heart, and it has 
been suggested that the glycoprotein matrix on the external surface of cardiac
cells is a critical factor in the supply of 'activator' calcium to the beating
heart. Sialic acid residues are important calcium-binding sites in the matrix and
treatment with neuraminidase, an enzyme which cleaves sialic acid from
oligosaccharide chains, has been reported to abolish spontaneous contraction in
cultured heart cells, without causing general breakdown in the plasma membrane.
However, we report here that in intact, electrically stimulated guinea pig atrial
preparations, neuraminidase treatment produces no significant changes in resting 
tension or force of contraction. It is also without effect on the response to
calcium removal and replacement, and inotropic or toxic concentrations of cardiac
glycosides. In these experiments, up to 79% of the total tissue sialic acid was
removed, and electron microscopy studies showed that this removal was accompanied
by marked reduction of lanthanum binding to the sarcolemma. We therefore conclude
that the calcium-binding sialic acid residues in the external matrix of the
cardiac cells are of little importance in the maintenance of contractile function
in these intact atrial preparations.


PMID: 7402355  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Nature. 1980 Aug 21;286(5775):817-9.

Ouabain stimulation of noradrenaline transport in guinea pig heart.

Sharma VK, Pottick LA, Banerjee SP.

Cardiac glycosides such as ouabain inhibit Na+-dependent high-affinity
noradrenaline uptake in sympathetic nerve terminals by interacting with (Na+ +
K+)ATPase located in the neuronal membrane. It has been suggested that the
augmentation of noradrenaline concentration at the neuromuscular junctions
following the inhibition of its uptake may contribute to the ouabain-induced
cardiac arrhythmia seen with toxic doses of the drug. Although it is generally
accepted that the biochemical basis for the pharmacological response of cardiac
glycosides must involve specific interaction of this class of drugs with the
cardiac cell membrane Na+, K+-exchange pump, the precise molecular mechanism for 
the improvement of muscle performance by ouabain is controversial. Many
investigators claim that cardiac glycosides increase myocardial force of
contraction by inhibiting (Na+ + K+)ATPase. According to this hypothesis, such an
inhibition might increase the intracellular concentration of Na+, which may
augment the activity of the transmembrane Na+, Ca2+-exchange pump described by
several workers. We have found that ouabain stimulates Na+-dependent transport of
noradrenaline by guinea pig heart sympathetic nerve terminals.


PMID: 7402354  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Nature. 1980 Aug 21;286(5775):812-3.

beta-Endorphin alters luteinizing hormone secretion via the amygdala but not the 
hypothalamus.

Parvizi N, Ellendorff F.

Morphine and enkephalins are able to alter pituitary hormone secretion. It has
been postulated that they do not act directly at the pituitary, but rather that
the hypothalamus is the site at which inhibition or stimulation of pituitary
hormone secretion is initiated. On the other hand, endogenous opiates have been
located in distinctly different neuronal regions, including areas outside the
hypothalamus. The effects of beta-endorphin on plasma luteinizing hormone (LH)
levels have not been explored, and the present experiments attempt to elucidate
the contribution and the possible site of action of beta-endorphin in the control
of LH secretion. The results show that beta-endorphin inhibits pituitary LH
secretion if applied into the amygdala but not when given into the hypothalamus.


PMID: 7402353  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Nature. 1980 Aug 21;286(5775):791-3.

Physicochemical speciation of lead in drinking water.

Harrison RM, Laxen DP.

Recent studies have highlighted the importance of drinking water as a route of
human exposure to lead. Whilst there are ample data on lead concentrations in
drinking water, little is known of its physical and chemical forms
(physicochemical speciation). Such information is important as the speciation of 
ingested lead influences the efficiency of absorption from the gastrointestinal
tract. Knowledge of speciation should also provide a fuller understanding of the 
factors controlling the solubility of lead in potable waters and hence assist in 
devising the most cost-effective means of plumbosolvency control. We have
determined experimentally the speciation of lead in three different tapwaters and
report here diverse forms of dissolved and particle-associated lead, dependent
primarily on the chemical matrix of the raw water.


PMID: 7402352  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Nature. 1980 Aug 21;286(5775):771-6.

Antigenic drift between the haemagglutinin of the Hong Kong influenza strains
A/Aichi/2/68 and A/Victoria/3/75.

Verhoeyen M, Fang R, Jou WM, Devos R, Huylebroeck D, Saman E, Fiers W.

A DNA copy of the gene coding for the influenza A/Aichi/2/68 haemagglutinin
protein was cloned in the plasmid pBR322 and the complete nucleotide sequence
determined. Comparison of this primary structure and the deduced amino acid
sequence with the haemagglutinin gene and protein of strains belonging to the
same (H3) subtype and to different subtypes, of both human (H2) and avian (Hav1) 
origin, documents further at the molecular level the two independent modes of
antigenic variation of the virus--drift and shift.


PMID: 7402351  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Nature. 1980 Aug 21;286(5775):822-4.

A monomeric insulin from the porcupine (Hystrix cristata), an Old World
hystricomorph.

Horuk R, Blundell TL, Lazarus NR, Neville RW, Stone D, Wollmer A.

The insulins of New World hystricomorph rodents exhibit many novel amino acid
changes in primary structure when compared with other mammalian insulins. These
changes give rise to unusual properties (low potency, failure to self-associate) 
not shared by other naturally-occurring insulins. We report here on the primary
structure, zinc-binding properties and circular dichroism (CD) of
porcupine-insulin (Hystrix cristata), the first Old World hystricomorph insulin
to be investigated, and discuss the changes in primary structure of the hormone
in relation to its properties. Residue B22 is strongly implicated as being
responsible for the unusual properties of porcupine insulin.


PMID: 6995860  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Nature. 1980 Aug 21;286(5775):821-2.

Covalent linking of photoreactive insulin to adipocytes produces a prolonged
signal.

Brandenburg D, Diaconescu C, Saunders D, Thamm P.

The first step of insulin's many cellular functions is specific binding to
receptors on the plasma membrane of target cells. The subsequent molecular basis 
of insulin action, particularly the coupling mechanism(s) involved in
transmitting the biological message, remains largely unknown. Our approach to the
problem centres on the application of a series of well characterized
photo-insulins carrying an aryl-azido or nitro-aryl-azido group in positions A1, 
B1, B2 or B29 (refs 2--4). Specific binding to membrane components could be
demonstrated with B1-, B29- (ref. 5) and A1-photo-insulins as well as a
B2-derivative. We now report that lipogenesis is increased to, and maintained at,
near-maximal levels for several hours after photoinduced covalent binding of B2- 
(2-nitro,4-azidophenylacetyl)-des-PheB1-insulin (Napa-DP-insulin) to living
adipocytes.


PMID: 6995859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Nature. 1980 Aug 21;286(5775):816-7.

Non-uniform Ca2+ buffer distribution in a nerve cell body.

Tillotson D, Gorman AL.

In nerve cells, Ca2+ influx through voltage-dependent channels in the membrane
causes a transient rise in the intracellular, free Ca2+ concentration. Such
changes have been shown to be important for the release of transmitter at the
axon terminal and for the control of the movement of ions through channels in the
soma membrane. The transient behaviour of the rise in Ca2+ concentration can, in 
part, be explained by the presence of sequestering systems in the cell which tend
to limit the magnitude and duration of changes in internal Ca2+ (refs 7--10). It 
is possible that systems involved in buffering changes in internal Ca2+ are not
distributed uniformly throughout the cell. This is particularly likely in the
cell body, where a significant portion of the cytoplasm is occupied by the
nucleus, whose buffering capacity may differ from that of other cellular regions.
We report here that in the soma of a molluscan pacemaker neurone, the machinery
responsible for short-term buffering of Ca2+ ions is localized near the inner
surface of the plasma membrane.


PMID: 6772974  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Nature. 1980 Aug 21;286(5775):779-83.

A mutant immunoglobulin light chain is formed by aberrant DNA- and RNA-splicing
events.

Seidman JG, Leder P.

A mutant immunoglobulin gene has been formed by an abnormal (non V/J)
recombination event such that abnormal RNA splicing is required to form a mutant 
light chain. The structure of the gene suggests that the small palindrome thought
to be involved in V/J joining also provides the basis for this abnormal DNA
recombination and that the absence of a J segment and RNA splice signal allows an
abnormal RNA splicing reaction to occur.


PMID: 6772973  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Nature. 1980 Aug 21;286(5775):776-9.

RNA splicing generates a variant light chain from an aberrantly rearranged kappa 
gene.

Choi E, Kuehl M, Wall R.

Both C kappa regions in MPC 11 cells are rearranged into active transcripion
units, one producing a normal kappa chain and the other an internally deleted
kappa fragment lacking a V region. The gene coding for the kappa fragment mRNA is
aberrantly rearranged and lacks a site for V leads to C kappa splicing. An
alternative splicing event which deletes the V region from the nuclear RNA
precursor generates the kappa fragment mRNA.


PMID: 6772972  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Nature. 1980 Aug 21;286(5775):763-7.

Nucleosome assembly.

Laskey RA, Earnshaw WC.

Histones and DNA can spontaneously associate to form the nucleosome subunits of
eukaryotic chromatin, but two proteins which occur in the eukaryotic nucleus can 
facilitate nucleosome assembly and greatly extend the conditions which permit
assembly to occur. Recently several laboratories have reported new experimental
systems which help to analyse, reconsruct and exploit the cellular mechanisms of 
chromatin assembly.


PMID: 6250082  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Nature. 1980 Aug 21;286(5775):810-2.

Specific binding of 3H-substance P to rat brain membranes.

Hanley MR, Sandberg BE, Lee CM, Iversen LL, Brundish DE, Wade R.

The undecapeptide substance P is a putative neurotransmitter in the mammalian
central nervous system (CNS), and may be associated with pain fibres in the
spinal cord. Radiolabelled derivatives of other neuropeptides have been used to
demonstrate specific interactions with receptor sites on brain membranes, and
this approach has now been explored with substance P. We have now prepared
[4-3H-Phe8]-substance P and we find that it binds reversibly to a saturable
population of sites in rat brain particulate fractions. Scatchard analysis of
concentration-dependent saturation of binding indicates a single population of
non-interacting sites with a high affinity (Kd=0.38 nM) and a low density
(Bmax=27.2 fmol per mg protein). Kinetic analyses indicate an apparent
dissociation equilibrium constant of 0.46 nM. A variety of neurotransmitter
amines and amino acids, and other peptides do not compete at the substance P
sites, but structurally related peptides or shorter C-terminal fragments of
substance P are active. The rank order of potency of these substance P-related
peptides agrees with that reported for their effects in depolarizing spinal cord 
neurones. The regional distribution of the specific binding sites for
3H-substance P parallels that of substance P immunoreactivity, being high in the 
hypothalamus and low in the cerebellum and cerebral cortex. The characteristics
of the 3H-substance P binding sites are consistent with those expected for
substance P receptors.


PMID: 6157109  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Nature. 1980 Aug 14;286(5774):738-9.

Monoclonal anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies can cause experimental
myasthenia.

Richman DP, Gomez CM, Berman PW, Burres SA, Fitch FW, Arnason BG.

Myasthenia gravis (MG) is a disease which occurs as a consequence of an
autoimmune response directed against the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) 
of the myoneural junction. Antisera raised against complex antigens such as AChR 
comprise a mixture of antibodies reactive with various determinants on the
antigen molecule. The antibodies against any single determinant may be of several
immunoglobulin classes and idiotypes. Antibodies produced by cloned
lymphocyte-myeloma hybridoma cell lines have provided a way of analysing the
diverse components making up a polyclonal antiserum and assessing the relative
contribution made by each to the overall immune reaction in vivo. We have applied
this technique to the investigation of the autoimmune response in MG. We
demonstrate here that certain monoclonal anti-Torpedo AChR antibodies, when
injected intravenously into normal rats, induce an acute myasthenic syndrome.
Thus binding of a single molecular species of antibody reactive with a single
antigenic determinant can result in all of the manifestations of an autoimmune
disease.


PMID: 7412861  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Nature. 1980 Aug 14;286(5774):731-3.

Myosin from fetal hearts contains the skeletal muscle embryonic light chain.

Whalen RG, Sell SM.

The contractile proteins of adult skeletal and cardiac muscle tissue are very
similar. Some of these proteins are identical in amino acid sequence or differ
only slightly. Various structural studies have shown that the heavy and light
chains of myosin are also homologous in skeletal and cardiac muscles. In
developing skeletal muscles, certain myosin subunits are present which are not
found in the corresponding adult muscle. Whether fetal cardiac muscle also
contains myosin subunits homologous to these early forms is not known. We now
report that ventricular myosin of fetal rats has a light chain polypeptide
corresponding to the skeletal muscle embryonic light chain. This result provides 
further evidence that a form of myosin light chain, not detectable in adult
skeletal or ventricular myosin, is characteristic of the early stages of striated
muscle development.


PMID: 7412860  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Nature. 1980 Aug 14;286(5774):727-9.

Topographical distribution of coated pits.

Pfeiffer JR, Oliver JM, Berlin RD.

The internalization of a wide range of biologically significant macromolecules,
particularly low density lipoproteins (LDL) and proteins such as alpha
2-macroglobulin and epidermal growth factor, occurs primarily through
characteristic, bristle-coated indentations of the cell surface known as coated
pits. Current interest has focused on the topographical relationship between
surface receptors for these ligands and the coated pits. We establish here that
coated pits are themselves distributed non-randomly on the J774.2 mouse
macrophage cell surface. Morphometric and statistical analyses of cell profiles
in electron micrographs indicate two levels of asymmetry; in all cells, pits are 
clustered; after colchicine treatment they accumulate over a microvillous
protuberance that develops at one pole of the cell. This topographical
heterogeneity suggests a new level at which cellular responses to growth
substances and hormones may be regulated.


PMID: 7412859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Nature. 1980 Aug 14;286(5774):725-7.

Receptors for concanavalin A cluster at the front of polarized neutrophils.

Weinbaum DL, Sullivan JA, Mandell GL.

Polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMN) can recognize, engulf and kill microorganisms
and are thus an important host defence against infection. The initial encounter
between a microbe and the neutrophil takes place at the neutrophil surface.
Receptors, including those for the Fc end of the immunoglobulin G (ref. 1), the
C3b component of complement, formyl peptides and plant lectins have been
identified on the surface of neutrophils. We have now examined the surface
pattern and arrangement of receptors for the plant lectin concanavalin A (Con A) 
to determine if the surface receptor array varied with the functional state of
the neutrophil. We found that receptors for Con A clustered at the front of
polarized neutrophils.


PMID: 7412858  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Nature. 1980 Aug 14;286(5774):724-5.

Asymmetric Fc receptor distribution on human PMN oriented in a chemotactic
gradient.

Walter RJ, Berlin RD, Oliver JM.

Phagocytosis of antibody-coated particles and immune complexes by
polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) and macrophages is initiated by binding to Fc 
receptors. While it appears that subsequent ingestion requires receptor-Fc
interactions to occur along the entire periphery of the particle, the
distribution of Fc receptors over the leukocyte surface is unknown. We show here 
that during chemotaxis the Fc receptors of human neutrophils are localized to the
cell's leading edge. This restricted receptor topography coincides with cell
orientation and does not require net forward movement of PMN. Thus Fc receptors
are located in precisely that region of the cell most likely to first encounter
opsonized particles.


PMID: 7412857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Nature. 1980 Aug 14;286(5774):736-7.

Glial cells in the enteric nervous system contain glial fibrillary acidic
protein.

Jessen KR, Mirsky R.

The complex nervous networks found throughout the mammalian gut--the enteric
nervous system--are histologically, ultrastructurally, and, to some extent,
functionally--similar to the central nervous system. The glial cells of the small
enteric ganglia are generally classified as Schwann or satellite cells, since
they are found in the peripheral nervous system, possess nuclei which
ultrastructurally resemble those of Schwann cells and are derived from the neural
crest. However, it has been argued that these cells resemble astrocytes of the
central nervous system with respect to gross and fine structure, and their
relationship with the enteric neurones and their processes. In
immunohistochemical studies of these cells, both in frozen sections of gut wall
and in tissue culture preparations of the enteric plexuses, we found evidence
that the enteric glial cells are rich in glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), 
a protein associated with the 100 A glial intermediate filaments, and hitherto
believed to be specific to astrocytes of the central nervous system only.


PMID: 6997753  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Nature. 1980 Aug 14;286(5774):716-8.

Bone-forming cell line derived from embryonal carcinoma cells.

Nicolas JF, Gaillard J, Jakob H, Jacob F.

The use of established cell lines of various types has provided information on
the properties of certain stem cells and on the conditions of their
differentiation. No bone-forming cell line has so far been described. We report
here the isolation, from in vitro differentiating teratocarcinoma cells, of a
line which, on subcutaneous injection into syngeneic mice, gives rise to
ossicles. The appearance of ossicles is preceded by the formation of a
cartilaginous matrix, thus reproducing what has been described as endochondral
differentiation. The ossicles obtained are rapidly colonized by host marrow, are 
non-malignant and stop growing 2 weeks after injection of the cells. In certain
conditions, however, osteosarcomas, chondroosteosarcomas and fibrosarcomas can be
obtained. From these tumours, cell lines have been isolated which retain in vitro
the properties of the cells found in the tumour.


PMID: 6931966  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


301. Nature. 1980 Aug 14;286(5774):684-7.

The cDNA for the beta-subunit of human chorionic gonadotropin suggests evolution 
of a gene by readthrough into the 3'-untranslated region.

Fiddes JC, Goodman HM.

A 579-base pair approximately full-length cDNA which codes for the 145-amino acid
long beta-subunit of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) has been cloned in the
plasmid vector pBR322 and its complete nucleotide sequence determined. A
hydrophobic presequence of 20 amino acids can be identified from the nucleotide
sequence. The amino acid sequence of the beta-subunit is known to be related to
those of the beta-subunits of the other glycoprotein hormones LH, FSH and TSH,
but the beta-subunit of HCG is unique in that it contains a C-terminal extension 
of about 30 amino acids which has no homologous counterpart in the other three
hormones. Analysis of the beta HCG cDNA nucleotide sequence suggests that this
extension may have arisen by the loss of the termination codon of an ancestral
beta-like gene so that most of what was previously the 3'-untranslated region now
codes for protein. The beta-subunit of HCG terminates with the codon UAA located 
16 bases before the poly(A) in the sequence AAUAAA. This sequence is believed to 
be a recognition signal involved in either polyadenylation or processing and
therefore has a dual role in this gene, serving both a coding and a regulatory
function.


PMID: 6774259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Nature. 1980 Aug 14;286(5774):676-83.

Two types of somatic recombination are necessary for the generation of complete
immunoglobulin heavy-chain genes.

Sakano H, Maki R, Kurosawa Y, Roeder W, Tonegawa S.

At least two types of somatic recombination are necessary for the generation of a
complete immunoglobulin gamma 2b gene from germ-line DNA sequences. The first
type of recombination consists of the assembly of three separate DNA segments,
each encoding a different part of the variable region. The second type of
recombination replaces the exons coding for the constant region of the mu chain
with those coding for the same region of the gamma 2b chain. The DNA sequencing
studies suggest that the two types of recombination operate by different
mechanisms.


PMID: 6774258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Nature. 1980 Aug 14;286(5774):669-75.

An immunoglobulin deletion mutant with implications for the heavy-chain switch
and RNA splicing.

Dunnick W, Rabbitts TH, Milstein C.

The IF2 immunoglobulin mutant is a DNA deletion of one coding segment and large
sections of the flanking intervening sequences. The deletion results in a new
splicing pattern and starts in a DNA region containing tandemly repeated
sequences which may carry heavy-chain class switch signals.


PMID: 6774257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Nature. 1980 Aug 14;286(5774):714-6.

Mechanism of origin of complete hydatidiform moles.

Jacobs PA, Wilson CM, Sprenkle JA, Rosenshein NB, Migeon BR.

Complete or 'true' hydatidiform mole, an abnormality of human gestation, is
characterized by hydropic degeneraton of all placental villi, marked hypertrophy 
of the trophoblast, absence of a fetus and a propensity to become malignant. The 
chromosome constitution of complete moles is usually 46,XX, and Kajii et al.
reported that the entire genome in seven out of seven cases was paternal in
origin, with all centromere markers homozygous for paternal heteromorphisms.
These observations, since confirmed, can be explained by the fertilization of an 
'empty' egg--no effective genome--by either a haploid sperm that then duplicates 
without cytokinesis, to restore the diploid number, or by a diploid sperm
resulting from failure of the second meiotic division. We report here a study of 
a series of complete moles that shows the first alternative to be correct in the 
majority of cases.


PMID: 6447836  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Nature. 1980 Aug 14;286(5774):722-3.

A binding site on mast cells and basophils for the anti-allergic drug cromolyn.

Mazurek N, Berger G, Pecht I.

Calcium permeability of basophil and mast cell membranes is stimulated on
allergen binding to its specific membrane-bound IgE. This entry of Ca2+ ions into
the cell triggers the degranulation and secretion process. Disodium cromoglycate 
(cromolyn DSCG), the disodium salt of
1,3-bis(-2-carboxychromon-5-yloxy)-2-hydroxypropane, inhibits the degranulation
and release of anaphylactic mediators, and has found wide application in the
treatment of allergic bronchial asthma. Accumulated evidence indicates that this 
inhibition takes place by blocking the calcium uptake. To localize its site of
action, the drug has been covalently conjugated to fluorescent polyacrylamide and
polyglutaraldehyde beads (0.7 and 0.2 microns in diameter, respectively). We show
here that these drug-bead conjugates (DBC) do prevent the drug penetrating into
the cell without reducing its ability to inhibit histamine release (Table 1).
Furthermore, we show a specific Ca2+-dependent binding of the DBC to the
membranes of rat peritoneal mast cells (RPMC) and basophils.


PMID: 6157990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Nature. 1980 Aug 14;286(5774):720-2.

IgM-autoantibodies against isologous erythrocytes also react with isologous
IgG(Fc).

Cunliffe DA, Cox KO.

The mechanisms by which the adaptive immune system of animals discriminate
between foreign and self components are not known. It is generally believed that 
antibodies are produced only in response to foreign agents. However, against this
axiom there is mounting evidence that normal animals produce autoantibodies
against a variety of self components. In two murine model systems, a high
proportion of IgM-producing cells secrete autoantibodies. In one model, the
autoantibodies are specific for isologous mouse IgG(Fc) and in the other, the
autoantibodies are specific for antigens revealed on the surface of mouse
erythrocytes (RBC) by proteolytic enzymes. The function of these two autoimmune
responses is a mystery. Here we show that the two responses are related. The
lysis of mouse RBC, modified with bromelain (brom) by IgM autoantibodies was
completely inhibited by isologous IgG(Fc), and antibodies against mouse IgG(Fc)
formed precipitin bands with solubilized membranes from mouse RBC. We conclude
that mouse RBC membranes and IgG(Fc) have at least one antigenic determinant in
common and that this determinant is the target for autoimmune responses in normal
mice.


PMID: 6157989  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Nature. 1980 Aug 14;286(5774):663-9.

The ontogeny of the neural crest in avian embryo chimaeras.

Le Douarin NM.

The migration and subsequent development of autonomic ganglion cell precursors
can be followed in suitably constructed chimaeric quail-chick embryos, thanks to 
the distinctive structures of quail and chick interphase nuclei. The decisive
role of environmental factors arising from non-neuronal tissues on the chemical
differentiation of neurones was demonstrated together with the lability of their 
phenotype during ontogeny.


PMID: 6106161  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Nature. 1980 Aug 7;286(5773):640-1.

A novel conformation of valinomycin in its barium complex.

Devarajan S, Nair CM, Easwaran KR, Vijayan M.

Knowledge of the molecular mechanisms involved in ionophore-mediated cation
transport would be valuable for understanding many essential functions of
biological membranes. Cations are transported in several stages, such as
formation of the ionophore-cation complex, diffusion across the cell membrane and
subsequent release of the cation. Several conformational rearrangements are
involved in this process, and so a detailed understanding of all the
conformational possibilities of the ionophore seems to be essential for
elucidating the molecular mechanism of ion transport. We are carrying out
spectroscopic and crystallographic studies to explore the possible conformational
stages of ionophores by complexing them, in different solvents, with cations of
various sizes and charges. We report here a novel conformation of the ionophore
valinomycin in its barium complex. It can be described as an extended
depsipeptide chain, without interval hydrogen bonds, wound in the form of an
ellipse with the two barium ions located at the foci.


PMID: 7402346  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Nature. 1980 Aug 7;286(5773):632-4.

A diffusion--collision--adhesion model for the kinetics of myoglobin refolding.

Cohen FE, Sternberg MJ, Phillips DC, Kuntz ID, Kollman PA.

There are two distinct experimental and theoretical problems of protein folding: 
the thermodynamic issue of characterizing the folded state, and the kinetic
question of the path between the unfolded and native states. Here we consider the
second question and present a diffusion--collision--adhesion model for the
folding of the alpha-helical protein myoglobin. In particular, we consider the
fast refolding species of the unfolded state and ignore the slow transition
between unfolded states that has been attributed to proline isomerization.


PMID: 7402344  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Nature. 1980 Aug 7;286(5773):630-2.

A conformational isomer of bovine pancreatic trypsin inhibitor protein produced
by refolding.

States DJ, Dobson CM, Karplus M, Creighton TE.

Refolding of the bovine pancreatic trypsin inhibitor protein (BPTI) after
reduction of its three cysteine disulphide linkages can occur when the reduced
protein is placed in a suitable oxidizing medium (ref. 1 and refs therein). The
refolding process has been studied by trapping chemically intermediates which
contain only one or two disulphide bonds (ref. 1 and refs therein). We report
here that during structural studies of these intermediates by NMR, we have found 
that complete re-oxidation of the protein results in substantial quantities of a 
metastable folded species which is identical to native BPTI in its covalent
bonding (including the disulphide bonds) but possesses a somewhat different
conformation. The existence of such a species is supported by circular dichroism 
measurements on refolded BPTI. This novel form of BPTI is of considerable
interest because it can be used to provide information about the folding
mechanism and conformational stability of the protein.


PMID: 7402343  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Nature. 1980 Aug 7;286(5773):628-30.

Formation of helical filaments by copolymerization of two types of 'straight'
flagellins.

Kamiya R, Asakura S, Yamaguchi S.

Bacterial flagella undergo transition between several discrete types of
left-handed and right-handed helical structures when exposed to acidic or
alkaline pH, or to mechanical force. Calladine and ourselves have presented
models to explain such polymorphism, assuming that protein subunits (flagellin)
in a flagellum can be transformed into two conformations (L- and R-states)
depending on the species of flagellin and on the environmental conditions. An
obvious prediction from these 'two-state' models is that there should be two
types of straight flagella (L- and R-types) that are made up exclusively of
flagellins in either the L-state or the R-state. We have shown that straight
flagella from two species of mutants, Salmonella SJ814 (ref. 6) and Escherichia
coli hag 177 (ref. 7), are closely similar to the predicted R- and L-types,
respectively. Recently we have isolated 10 strains of straight-flagellar mutants 
of Salmonella. We show here that their flagella can also be classified into the
L- and R-types, and that copolymerization of flagellins from two heterologous
types (L and R) makes discrete types of helical filaments, whereas that of
homologous pairs of flagellins (L and L, or R and R) makes only straight
filaments.


PMID: 7402342  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Nature. 1980 Aug 7;286(5773):621-3.

Evidence that a developmentally regulated glycoprotein is target of
adhesion-blocking Fab in reaggregating Dictyostelium.

Steinemann C, Parish RW.

The target site of adhesion-blocking Fab in aggregating Dictyostelium cells is a 
plasma membrane glycoprotein of approximate molecular weight 82,000 (refs 1--3), 
which is no longer synthesized after aggregation, and disappears from the plasma 
membrane. However, since cell adhesion remains important during later stages of
differentiation, presumably important during later stages of differentiation,
presumably another proteins(s) takes over its function. One candidate is a
glycoprotein (molecular weight 95,000) whose synthesis commences at the tip stage
and continues until the completion of development. Both proteins are strongly
antigenic. When pseudoplasmodia ('slugs', a late developmental stage) are
disaggregated and replated, the cells recapitulate the previous sequence of
morphological changes much more quickly than before, although the glycoprotein of
molecular weight 82,000 is not resynthesized during reaggregation. We report here
that monovalent antibody (Fab) directed against slug plasma membranes inhibits
reaggregation by binding to the glycoprotein of molecular weight 95,000 which
thus seems to be involved in cell adhesion.


PMID: 7402341  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Nature. 1980 Aug 7;286(5773):604-6.

Two distinct patterns of visual evoked response asymmetry in human albinism.

Carroll WM, Jay BS, McDonald WI, Halliday AM.

Results are presented which confirm that in human albinos each cerebral
hemisphere receives a predominantly monocular input from the contralateral eye,
giving rise to an asymmetry of the visual evoked potential (VEP) to whole-field
stimulation which is similar to that for stimulation of the temporal half-field
in the same individual. The further finding of two distinct, and in some respects
opposite, types of topographical asymmetry raises the possibility that there are 
two anatomically distinct variants in the retinocortical projection in human
albinism, as there are in the Siamese cat.


PMID: 7402338  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Nature. 1980 Aug 7;286(5773):573-8.

Helical periodicity of DNA determined by enzyme digestion.

Rhodes D, Klug A.

The periodicity of DNA has been determined by binding short, stiff pieces of DNA 
to a flat surface and using DNase I to probe the accessibility of the
phosphodiester bonds. We have found that the distance between successive DNase I 
cutting sites is 10.6 +/- 0.1 bases for the DNA immobilized on three different
surfaces. We identify this value with the number of base pairs per turn of the
DNA double helix in solution.


PMID: 7402337  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Nature. 1980 Aug 7;286(5773):567-73.

High-salt d(CpGpCpG), a left-handed Z' DNA double helix.

Drew H, Takano T, Tanaka S, Itakura K, Dickerson RE.

The DNA tetramer d(CpGpCpG) or CGCG crystallizes from high-salt solution as a
left-handed double helix, the Z' helix. Its structure differs from that of the
other known left-handed helix, Z-DNA, by a Cl'-exo sugar pucker at
deoxyguanosines rather than C3'-endo, and these represent two alternative
solutions to the same steric constraint arising from the syn glycosyl bond
orientation. The apparent molecular basis for the Z to Z' transition in going
from intermediate to high salt is substitution of a bound anion for water at
guanine amino groups, and consequent charge repulsion of anions and backbone
phosphates.


PMID: 7402336  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Nature. 1980 Aug 7;286(5773):615-7.

How many types of erythroleukaemia are induced by retroviruses in mice?

Anand R, Steeves R.

Erythroleukaemia, until now defined by morphological criteria, has been observed 
in mice infected with several distinct virological entities, including the
polycythaemia-inducing strains of Friend virus complex (FV-P), the
anaemia-inducing strains of Friend and Rauscher virus complex (FV-A and RV-A,
respectively) and various helper-independent virus isolates derived from the FV-A
or RV-A complexes. Whereas erythroleukaemia develops rapidly (within 2-3 weeks)
in mice infected with any strain of FV or RV, the helper-independent virus alone 
is pathogenic in mice only if they are infected neonatally. We now describe how
two biological markers can be used to distinguish among the otherwise confusing
array of virus-induced erythroleukaemias in mice. The evidence suggests that
there are three different classes of this disease: (1) those (S+E+) from which
both defective spleen focus-forming virus (SFFV) and erythropoietin-independent, 
erythroid colony-forming units (CFU-EI) can be recovered, (2) those (S+E-) from
which only SFFV (but not CFU-EI) can be recovered, and (3) those (S-E-) from
which neither SFFV nor CFU-EI can be recovered. There is a consistent association
between the type of virus used to induce the erythroleukaemia and the class of
the disease induced.


PMID: 6931289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Nature. 1980 Aug 7;286(5773):638-40.

Metarhodopsin I/metarhodopsin II transition triggers light-induced change in
calcium binding at rod disk membranes.

Kaupp UB, Schnetkamp PP, Junge W.

The hypothesis of Yoshikami and Hagins that calcium ions act as diffusible
transmitter molecules between the photochemistry of rhodopsin and the subsequent 
electrical events at the outer plasma membrane of rods initiated many
investigations on light-stimulated calcium release in vertebrate photoreceptor
cells (see refs 2, 3). Although it not seems firmly established that light has
some effect on the redistribution of calcium in various disk preparations,
reconstituted systems and intact rod outer segments, the physiological
significance remained unclear. We previously reported a rapid, light-triggered
calcium release from binding sites at the disk membrane in the presence of
calcium ionophore A23187 (refs 3, 8). However, there is no evidence for rapid
calcium release into the cytosol in the absence of ionophore. On fragmentation of
intact rod outer segments, calcium release due to a light-requlated change of
calcium binding appeared almost completely abolished. We describe here
experiments with sonicated rod outer segments in which the previously observed
loss of the calcium release capacity has been prevented. Calcium release in
sonicated disks in the presence of A23187 kinetically follows the metarhodopsin
I/metarhodopsin II transition (tau 1/2 = 10 ms, activation energy EA = 34 kcal
mol-1), suggesting that calcium release is triggered by this photochemical
transition.


PMID: 6772971  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Nature. 1980 Aug 7;286(5773):626-8.

Control of tension development in scallop muscle fibres with foreign regulatory
light chains.

Simmons RM, Szent-Györgyi AG.

We have shown previously that chemically skinned fibre bundles from scallop
muscle can be desensitized to the action of calcium by the removal of the
regulatory light chains of myosin and that sensitivity can be restored by the
re-addition of scallop light chains. We have now confirmed these results and
extended our observations to fibre bundles from which one or both of the
regulatory light chains per myosin have been removed (by treatment with EDTA at 7
and 25 degrees C, respectively) and replaced by the corresponding light chains
from other species. In the case of a double substitution--where both light chains
were replaced--sensitivity was restored completely by light chains from other
molluscs and from gizzard muscle; for a single substitution there was restoration
of sensitivity by all the light chains tested.


PMID: 6772970  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Nature. 1980 Aug 7;286(5773):625-6.

Chemically induced myotonia in amphibia.

Bretag AH, Dawe SR, Moskwa AG.

Frogs and toads treated with high doses of anthracene-9-carboxylic acid (A-9-C)
develop prolonged muscular contractions and 'divebomber' electromyograms
characteristic of myotonia. Hitherto, myotonia has been considered peculiar to
homeotherms where it is associated with several hereditable diseases and can be
induced by specific treatments, most of which seem to act by decreasing membrane 
chloride conductance. Our work indicates that myotonia can be induced in amphibia
by similar means. We offer possible reasons why others have missed seeing
myotonia in amphibia.


PMID: 6772969  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Nature. 1980 Aug 7;286(5773):561-4.

New findings in methane-utilizing bacteria highlight their importance in the
biosphere and their commercial potential.

Higgins IJ, Best DJ, Hammond RC.

Recent results, showing that the ubiquitous methane-utilizing bacteria
(methanotrophs) can partially oxidize and, in some cases, extensively metabolize 
complex organic compounds, call for a reappraisal of their role in the cycling of
elements in the biosphere. Possible environmental implications and opportunities 
for industrial exploitation are discussed.


PMID: 6772967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Nature. 1980 Aug 7;286(5773):609-11.

Suppression of in vitro lymphocyte reactivity by cyclosporin A: existence of a
population of drug-resistant cytotoxic lymphocytes.

Horsburgh T, Wood P, Brent L.

Cyclosporin A (CS-A) is an unusual endecapeptide isolated from the fungi
Cylindrocarpon lucidum Booth and Trichoderma polysporum. It is a potent
immunosuppressive drug that prevents rejection of kidney and heart allografts
whilst having a low myelotoxicity. Its mode of action is still unclear but its
main target appears to be the T lymphocyte. The mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR)
and cell-mediated lymphocytoxicity (CML) used here are generally regarded as in
vitro correlates of allograft rejection. Our data show that CS-A is a powerful
inhibitor of MLR reactivity, regardless of whether the cells were obtained from
normal or presensitized donors; that the CML of lymph node cells is likewise
totally inhibited if the drug is added early during cell culture; and that, by
contrast, the cytotoxic response of spleen cells from presensitized but not from 
normal mice is only partially inhibited, even with a tenfold increase in dose. It
is therefore suggested that there exists a population of cytotoxic spleen cells
that is relatively resistant to the action of this drug.


PMID: 6447256  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Nature. 1980 Aug 7;286(5773):623-5.

Modulation of brain polyphosphoinositide metabolism by ACTH-sensitive protein
phosphorylation.

Jolles J, Zwiers H, van Dongen CJ, Schotman P, Wirtz KW, Gispen WH.

Phosphorylation of membrane components is thought to be an important process in
membrane function. Phosphorylated proteins and a special class of phospholipids, 
the (poly)phosphoinositides (poly PI), are implicated in the regulation of
membrane permeability and synaptic transmission in neurones. For many years,
protein phosphorylation and poly PI metabolism have been studied in parallel
without knowledge of their possible interaction. We report here that the
ACTH-sensitive protein kinase/B-50 protein complex which we recently isolated in 
soluble form from rat brain synaptosomal plasma membranes has lipid
phosphorylating activity. Exogenously added phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate
(DPI) is phosphorylated to phosphatidylinositol 4,5-diphosphate (TPI), and this
DPI-kinase activity is dependent on the state of phosphorylation of the protein
kinase/B-50 protein complex. The results imply that phosphorylation of protein
may affect the metabolism of (poly) PI in brain cell membranes.


PMID: 6250080  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Nature. 1980 Aug 7;286(5773):613-5.

Elution of herpes simplex virus-specific cytotoxic antibodies from squamous cell 
carcinoma of uterine cervix.

Seth P, Balachandran N.

There is evidence that carcinoma of the cervix uteri is associated with infection
with herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2), and although indirect evidence suggests
an aetiological relationship, this remains controversial. One facet of the
problem is that complement-dependent cytotoxic antibodies is HSV-2-infected cells
have been undetectable or found only in low titre in sera from patients with
progressive cervical cancer whereas higher titres have been found where cervical 
lesions are less advanced. Indeed, cytotoxic antibody titres have been found to
rise during the follow-up period after successful treatment. Absorption of these 
antibodies by the tumour cells has been proposed as a possible reason for low
HSV-2 cytolytic reactivity in patients with progressing cervical cancer. This
explanation assumes the presence of HSV-2-specific antigen(s) on the tumour
cells. We now provide support ffor this assumption with evidence that absorbed
HSV-2-specific antibodies can be eluted from cervical cancer tissue.


PMID: 6250079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Nature. 1980 Aug 7;286(5773):606-7.

Ethyl beta-carboline-3-carboxylate shows differential benzodiazepine receptor
interaction.

Nielsen M, Braestrup C.

High-affinity binding of 3H-diazepam and 3H-flunitrazepam has provided evidence
for the presence of benzodiazepine receptors on brain neurones. Pharmacological
evidence showing a clear correlation between receptor affinity and in vivo
pharmacological potency for several benzodiazepines and a link between
benzodiazepine receptors and GABA (gamma-amino-butyric acid) receptors at the
molecular level, indicates that these receptors are relevant to the
pharmacological and clinical effects of benzodiazepines. In searching for
possible endogeneous ligands for benzodiazepine receptors we have recently
isolated ethyl beta-carboline-3-carboxylate (beta-CCE) found human urine and
brain, and shown that beta-CCE has a higher affinity than diazepam for brain
benzodiazepine receptors. beta-CCE itself is probably not present in the brain,
but may be closely related to an endogenous benzodiazepine receptor ligand. We
report here that beta-CCE, in contrast to benzodiazepines, can distinguish
clearly between benzodiazepine receptors in cerebellum and hippocampus. This
result strongly indicates that benzodiazepine receptors are not a single class of
non-interacting entities. It has not been possible to determine whether two
distinct receptors are present and/or whether true negative cooperativity exists 
among hippocampal, but not cerebellar, benzodiazepine receptors.


PMID: 6250077  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Nature. 1980 Jul 31;286(5772):517-9.

Visualization of the structural polarity of microtubules.

Heidemann SR, McIntosh JR.

Microtubules (MTs) are intrinsically polar fibres. Many models for the mechanism 
of MT-mediated transport and mitosis postulate an important role for MT polarity 
because a symmetric fibre could not generate force in one direction along its
surface. The lack of a convenient method to determine the polar orientation of
cellular MTs has hindered experimental testing of these ideas. We report here a
convenient technique for visualizing MT polarity based on conditions for tubulin 
assembly in vitro whereby MT elongation occurs with the associated formation of
hooked, protofilament appendages on the MT wall (see Fig. 1). There is polarity
information in such junctions between MT walls; our method reveals the polarity
of the cellular Mt by the handedness of the hooked appendage as seen in
cross-section (Fig. 1).


PMID: 7402333  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Nature. 1980 Jul 31;286(5772):516-7.

A specific enzyme is not necessary for vanadate-induced oxidation of NADH.

Vyskocil F, Teisinger J, Dlouhá H.

It has recently been found that ortho- or metavanadate can effectively block (Na+
+ K+)ATPase and that it loses its blocking potency when reduced to the vanadyl
(VO2+) ion. The question arose whether vanadate could be involved (reduced) in an
NAD-linked enzymatic redox system of the cell. Here we have studied the effect of
vanadate on malate dehydrogenase (MDH, EC1.1.1.37) catalysed oxidation of NADH
during the formation of malate from oxalacetate in vitro. The MDH reaction was
accelerated by vanadate, but we found thatr vanadate does not require the
presence of any specific enzyme or substrate to mediate NADH oxidation.


PMID: 7402332  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Nature. 1980 Jul 31;286(5772):492-4.

Determination and cellular commitment in the embryonic amphibian mesoderm.

Forman D, Slack JM.

In classical embryology, the term 'determination' was used to describe the
process by which a region of the embryo became committed to form a particular
part of the body and it was understood that there was a particular stage of
development at which determination occurred with respect to each decision. Some
authors insisted that only an irreversible commitment should be described as
determination, but this leaves undefined the nature of the preceding events
involved in its establishment. We show here that there may be several stages of
commitment for an organ rudiment that can be distinguished from one another by
the use of different methods for altering the pathway of development. We have
investigated the region of the amphibian mesoderm that is destined to become
somitic muscle in the course of normal development and applied to it a variety of
isolation and grafting techniques. The results, which show an extensive period of
lability within this region, can be used to explain how pattern formation might
occur within the dorsoventral axis of the mesoderm.


PMID: 7402328  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Nature. 1980 Jul 31;286(5772):510-1.

Insertion of E. coli photoreactivating enzyme into V79 hamster cells.

Sutherland BM, Hausrath SG.

Photoreactivating enzyme mediates the specific repair of UV light [220-300 nm,
(UV)]-induced cyclobutyl pyrimidine dimers in DNA. It binds to dimer-containing
DNA, and on absorption of light in the wavelength range 300-500 nm monomerizes
the dimer, restoring biological activity to DNA. The specificity of the enzyme
for pyrimidine dimers in DNA allows its use as an analytical tool. If UV-induced 
biological damage is photoreactivable, dimers are probably a major cause of that 
damage. Thus dimers have been implicated in producing death and mutation in
prokaryotes and in simple eukaryotes. Although this photoreactivation test has
great potential value in assessing the role of dimers in UV-induced damage in
mammalian cells, its use in cultured mammalian cells has been limited by the
dependence of photoreactivating enzyme levels on the cell species, genotype and
culture medium. We have developed a method for insertion of Escherichia coli
photoreactivating enzyme into mammalian cells, and show here that the inserted
bacterial enzyme can mediate photoreactivation of pyrimidine dimers in V79 rodent
cells.


PMID: 6995857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Nature. 1980 Jul 31;286(5772):452-6.

Evidence for differential intracellular localization of the Acanthamoeba myosin
isoenzymes.

Gadasi H, Korn ED.

The three myosin isoenzymes of Acanthamoeba castellanii coexist within a single
cell and the native molecules probably have the same unusual polypeptides
composition as the isolated enzymes. The two myosin I isoenzymes seem to be
preferentially localized near the plasma membrane while myosin II seems to be
much less concentrated near the plasma membrane than elsewhere in the cytoplasm.


PMID: 6995856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Nature. 1980 Jul 31;286(5772):507-10.

'Activation-labile' glucocorticoid-receptor complexes of a steroid-resistant
variant of CEM-C7 human lymphoid cells.

Schmidt TJ, Harmon JM, Thompson EB.

For cytoplasmic glucocorticoid-receptor complexes to enter and accumulate in the 
nucleus a temperature-dependent event, 'activation' is required. Activation can
be achieved in vitro by increased ionic strength, dilution or gel filtration and 
is manifested by an increased affinity of steroid-receptor complex for DNA and an
altered elution profile from ion-exchange resins. Munck and Foley have shown that
activated complexes isolated from thymocytes elute from DEAE-cellulose in a
manner identical to complexes activated in vitro. We report here that
DEAE-cellulose chromatography of steroid-receptor complexes from CEM-C7, a cloned
human leukaemic T-cell line sensitive to the cytolytic action of glucocorticoids,
and its steroid-resistant subclone 4R4 demonstrated that steroid receptors of
clone 4R4 cannot form stable activated complexes. This defines a new defect in
receptor action, activation lability (r+act1), which is unlike either the r-,
r+nt-, or r+nti phenotypes previously described for mouse lymphoid variants.


PMID: 6967568  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Nature. 1980 Jul 31;286(5772):502-4.

Erythroid developmental agglutinin is a protein lectin mediating specific
cell-cell adhesion between differentiating rabbit erythroblasts.

Harrison FL, Chesterton CJ.

In many developmental systems beta-galactoside-specific protein lectins have been
identified as components which appear at the cell surface in concert with an
initial requirement for cell-cell adhesion during tissue formation. Although some
of these lectins have been purified, there has been little direct evidence
concerning their role in establishing specific cell-cell contact. A mammalian
system where selective cell-cell adhesion is evident and which is amenable to
study is that of erythroid differentiation in the adult bone marrow. Here, the
differentiation of erythroblasts takes place with the participants clustered
together in the vicinity of a macrophage 'nurse' cell until the enucleation
stage, when the immature reticulocyte is released and passes through the
sinusoidal wall into the circulation. We show here that a small,
beta-galactoside-specific, protein lectin can be extracted from
erythroblast-enriched marrow and purified to homogeneity. This factor, termed
erythroid developmental agglutinin (EDA), exhibits properties which strongly
suggest that it is responsible for inter-erythroblast recognition and adhesion in
vivo.


PMID: 6772966  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Nature. 1980 Jul 31;286(5772):456-60.

Surface activation of blood coagulation, fibrinolysis and kinin formation.

Heimark RL, Kurachi K, Fujikawa K, Davie EW.

The activation of plasma prekallikrein by single-chain factor XII has been
studied in the presence of high molecular weight kininogen and kaolin. The data
indicate that factor XII can initiate blood coagulation, fibrinolysis or kinin
generation in the presence of kaolin and does so by converting prekallikrein to
kallikrein. An enzyme cascade is then generated leading to the formation of
fibrin, plasmin or bradykinin in three closely related physiological events.


PMID: 6447254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Nature. 1980 Jul 31;286(5772):535-8.

Integration of hepatitis B virus sequences and their expression in a human
hepatoma cell.

Edman JC, Gray P, Valenzuela P, Rall LB, Rutter WJ.

Hepatitis derived from hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is endemic throughout
the world, but it is particularly prevalent in Asia and Africa. In these areas,
demographic studies show a strong coincidence between HBV infection (assayed by
HBV antigenic markers) and the incidence of primary liver cancer. On these
grounds, a causal link between HBV infection and primary hepatocellular cancer
has been proposed. Recently, a human hepatoma cell line (PLC/PRF/5; Alexander
cells) has been shown to produce hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg). We show
here that the Alexander cell line contains at least six (four complete and two
partial) hepatitis B viral genomes integrated into high molecular weight host
DNA. An analysis using specific probes to fragments of the HBV genome suggests
that integration of the virus in most cases occurs at the nicked cohesive end
region of the virus. Expression of viral sequences using Northern blots
demonstrates the presence of RNA transcripts specific for the surface antigen
sequences of HBV DNA and the absence of detectable transcripts corresponding to
the hepatitis B core antigen.


PMID: 6250075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Nature. 1980 Jul 31;286(5772):533-5.

Presence of integrated hepatitis B virus DNA sequences in cellular DNA of human
hepatocellular carcinoma.

Brechot C, Pourcel C, Louise A, Rain B, Tiollais P.

Hepatitis B virus (HBV) may be one of the agents involved in the aetiology of
human primary liver cancer. This hypothesis is supported by (1) the similarity
between the geographical distribution of chronic carriers of the viral surface
antigen (HBsAg) and that of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); (2) the increase in
the prevalence of HBV markers in serum of patients with primary liver cancer when
compared with the general population; (3) the observation that HBV infection
precedes the development of the tumour. Moreover, these epidemiological
indications of an association between HBV infecton and hepatocellular carcinoma
are supported by the detection of HBV markers such as HBsAg or viral DNA
sequences, although in a non-integrated form in tumour tissue. To study the
relationship between HBV and primary liver cancer further, we looked for the
presence of free or integrated viral DNA in tumour tissue of human hepatocellular
carcinomas and in a HBsAg-producing human hepatoma cell line. Using the
blot-transfer hybridization technique and cloned HBV DNA as a probe, we have now 
demonstrated that the viral DNA is integrated in the cellular genome both in
tumour tissue and in a hepatoma cell line.


PMID: 6250074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Nature. 1980 Jul 31;286(5772):527-9.

DNA cloning in Streptomyces: a bifunctional replicon comprising pBR322 inserted
into a Streptomyces phage.

Suarez JE, Chater KF.

The Gram-positive, mycelial, differentiating streptomycetes are responsible for
the production of many important antibiotics. The availability of gene cloning
systems in this microbial group would have many industrial applications besides
allowing more penetrating study of the genetics of Streptomyces coelicolor A3(2) 
(which, as the best understood streptomycete genetically, serves as a model for
much other Streptomyces genetics). Recent successes (see previous paper) in
introducing Streptomyces DNA into S. coelicolor and Streptomyces lividans on
plasmid vectors would be nicely complemented by the availability of Streptomyces 
bacteriophage vectors (discussed in ref. 5): for example, many phages have wide
and easily defined host ranges; heat-inducible prophages might be used to give
high copy number of cloned DNA; efficient phage promoters might be used to
increase gene expression; there may be differential stabilities for particular
DNA sequences cloned in plasmids vis-à-vis phages; selective insertion of DNA,
utilizing packaging constraints, may be possible with phages; and in situ
hybridization of radioactive probes to DNA in plaques is likely to be simple. We 
describe here the use of the moderately wide host range temperate phage, phi C31,
for this purpose.


PMID: 6250071  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Nature. 1980 Jul 31;286(5772):525-7.

DNA cloning in Streptomyces: resistance genes from antibiotic-producing species.

Thompson CJ, Ward JM, Hopwood DA.

The biochemical and morphological differentiation of actinomycetes makes them
academically and economically interesting. Their secondary metabolites provide
the majority of medically and agriculturally important antibiotics (streptomycete
genes may also be the primary source of clinically important antibiotic
resistance); their complex morphological developmental cycle involves a series of
changes from vegetative mycelial growth to spore formation. Recombinant DNA
technology would add a powerful new dimension to the analysis of these various
aspects of actinomycete biology and would also facilitate the development of
industrial strains with increased antibiotic yield, or capable of making new
antibiotics. For most of these purposes, cloning of genes within and between
actinomycetes is required to study the expression of particular genes in genetic 
backgrounds defined by mutations of the characters under study. To achieve this, 
we have now developed a method for molecular cloning involving the transfer of
genes between unrelated streptomycetes.


PMID: 6250070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Nature. 1980 Jul 31;286(5772):504-7.

Abelson murine leukaemia virus transformation involves loss of epidermal growth
factor-binding sites.

Blomberg J, Reynolds FH Jr, Van de Ven WJ, Stephenson JR.

Malignant transformation by mammalian RNA sarcoma viruses has previously been
shown to involve a reduction in receptor sites for a well characterized
6,000-molecular weight (MW) growth-promoting substance, designated epidermal
growth factor (EGF). Although Abelson murine leukaemia virus (AbLV) resembles
sarcoma viruses in its ability to transform embryo fibroblasts in cell culture,
AbLV induces a rapid B-cell lymphoid leukaemia rather than fibrosarcomas in vivo.
The major translational product of AbLV is a highly phosphorylated polyprotein of
MW 120,000 which exhibits an associated tyrosine-specific protein kinase activity
and probable transforming function. We show here that AbLV transformation
resembles transformation by RNA sarcoma viruses with respect to the abolition of 
EGF-binding sites. EGF binding is restored to control levels following loss of
polyprotein expression in morphological revertants of AbLV-transformed clones and
remains uninfluenced in cell lines infected with transformation-defective (td)
AbLV mutants encoding polyproteins deficient in protein kinase activity. These
findings indicate that AbLV transformation involves a polyprotein-associated,
tyrosine-specific protein kinase activity which mediates its effect through a
mechanism resulting directly or indirectly in the abolition of EGF-binding sites.


PMID: 6250069  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Nature. 1980 Jul 31;286(5772):498-500.

Interaction of anaesthetics with electrical synapses.

Johnston MF, Simon SA, Ramón F.

Studies of the interaction of anaesthetics with various preparations, from whole 
animals to organic solvents, have been continuing since Overton and Meyer found a
correlation between anaesthetic potency and solubility in olive oil. Although the
physiological basis of anaesthesia is far from clear, one popular hypothesis is
that anaesthetics act primarily by interfering with the normal functioning of
chemical synapses. This hypothesis is supported by experiments showing that these
synapses are more sensitive to both local and general anaesthetics than are
axons. The effects of anaesthetics on electrical synapses (gap-junctions or
nexus) have not previously been studied. These ubiquitous structures, presumably 
responsible for cell-to-cell communication, are found in most vertebrate and
invertebrate tissues. We report here the effects of several anaesthetics on
electronic coupling between nerve cells, and show that electrical synapses are
less sensitive to most anaesthetics than are chemical synapses and axonal
membranes.


PMID: 6250068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Nature. 1980 Jul 31;286(5772):490-2.

Gametocytogenesis by malaria parasites in continuous culture.

Kaushal DC, Carter R, Miller LH, Krishna G.

Asexual proliferation of malaria parasites proceeds by multiplication of the
parasites within red cells. Following rupture of the host cells the released
merozoites re-invade other red cells. On re-invasion, a proportion of merozoites 
become, not asexual parasites but gametocytes, the sexual stages infective to the
mosquito vectors. Conversion of asexual parasites to gametocytes occurs not only 
during natural infections but also in continuous in vitro culture as reported
first by Trager and Jensen and by others. We showed previously that the
proportion of early intra-erythrocytic stages (ring stages) of Plasmodium
falciparum which developed into gametocytes in culture was influenced by culture 
conditions. Gametocyte formation was rare in conditions supporting rapid
proliferation but frequent when parasite densisites were static. We now show that
nearly 100% of ring stages develop into gametocytes in response to 1mM cyclic AMP
in static cultures whereas in rapidly growing cultures few rings become
gametocytes in response to cyclic AMP.


PMID: 6250067  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Nature. 1980 Jul 31;286(5772):460-7.

Distinctive sequence of human mitochondrial ribosomal RNA genes.

Eperon IC, Anderson S, Nierlich DP.

The nucleotide sequence spanning the ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes of cloned human
mitochondrial DNA reveals an extremely compact genome organization wherein the
putative tRNA genes are probably 'butt-jointed' around the two rRNA genes. The
sequences of the rRNA genes are significantly homologous in some regions to
eukaryotic and prokaryotic sequences, but distinctive; the tRNA genes also have
unusual nucleotide sequences. It seems that human mitochondria did not originate 
from recognizable relatives of present day organisms.


PMID: 6157106  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Nature. 1980 Jul 31;286(5772):447-52.

Biomolecular structure determination by mass spectrometry.

Morris HR.

Mass spectometry, conventionally used with smallish molecules (less than 1,000
daltons), has suprisingly emerged as a powerful technique for the determination
of the amino acid sequences of proteins and the structure of glycopeptides as
well as for the characterization of biologically active materials of unusual
structure such as the peptidolipids. Further applications to biomedical problems 
are foreseen.


PMID: 6105619  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Nature. 1980 Jul 24;286(5771):418-20.

Transcriptional control of two gene subclusters in the tRNA operon of
bacteriophage T4.

Goldfarb A, Daniel V.

In bacteriophage T4 DNA, transcription units recognized in vitro by host RNA
polymerase consist of promotor-proximal 'immediate early' (IE) genes and
promotor-distal 'delayed early' (DE) genes separated from each other by
rho-dependent transcription terminators. In vivo, the transition from IE to DE
transcription requires phage-specific protein synthesis and can be prevented by
chloramphenicol (CAM). Most of the information about IE/DE transition has been
obtained by hybridizaton analyses of mixtures of RNA species synthesized
simultaneously on several T4 transcription units (for review see ref. 3). A
useful model for the study of T4 gene expression at the level of primary
transcripts and individual gene products is provided by the T4 tRNA operon, a
cluster of genes coding for eight T4-specific transfer RNAs and two stable RNAs
(species 1 and 2) of unknown function (Fig. 1). The 10 genes of the tRNA operon
are arranged in two subclusters (I and II) with a promotor located about 1
kilobase pair upstream. The primary transcripts and the final gene products of
this region have been identified and isolated. Moreover, this genetic region was 
recently cloned and a part of it sequenced. We describe here the expression of T4
tRNA genes in vivo and in vitro in terms of the IE/DE concept and demonstrate
that the two subclusters of the tRNA operon are subject to different modes of
control.


PMID: 7402325  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Nature. 1980 Jul 24;286(5771):403-4.

Increased human red cell cation passive permeability below 12 degrees C.

Stewart GW, Ellory JC, Klein RA.

The rate of most biological reactions declines as the temperature is reduced;
indeed, cooling is often used to limit or terminate reactions. We report here a
paradoxical temperature response of red cell K and Na permeability below 12
degrees C. This may be interpreted thermodynamically in terms of a
membrane-ordering phenomenon, an observation supported by a variety of other
physical measurements on red cell membranes reported in the literature.


PMID: 7402324  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Nature. 1980 Jul 24;286(5771):393-5.

Circadian clock in Limulus brain increases response and decreases noise of
retinal photoreceptors.

Kaplan E, Barlow RB Jr.

The sensitivity and structure of ommatidia in the Limulus lateral eye exhibit
circadian rhythms. The cyclic changes are mediated by the activity of efferent
optic nerve fibres that originate in the brain and terminate in the retina. We
report here that the effects of the efferent input to the retina are detectable
in single photoreceptor cells. At night the efferent input decreases
photoreceptor noise (discrete waves of the membrane potential in darkness) and
increases the photoreceptor response to light (amplitude of the receptor
potential).


PMID: 7402321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Nature. 1980 Jul 24;286(5771):389-90.

Orientation bias of cat retinal ganglion cells.

Levick WR, Thibos LN.

Kuffler described the receptive fields of cat retinal ganglion cells as having a 
concentric arrangement. This has usually been taken to mean that they are
approximately circular in form (see, for example, ref. 2). Hammond tested the
circularity of the centre component of receptive fields by plotting a contour of 
isosensitivity to a small flashed spot. He concluded that centres were often
ellipitical (average ratio of major to minor axis 1.23) and that more than 50% of
the recorded cells had the major axis oriented within /+- 20 degrees of the
horizontal. Such data are important for discussions of the neurophysiological
basis of the 'oblique effect' (reduced visibility for periodic grating patterns
when oriented away from the vertical or horizontal) observed in psychophysical
experiments on humans because subcortical units are often assumed to be
orientationally unbiased. Orientation selectivity is a prominent attribute of
visual cortical neurones so analysis has usually emphasized the distribution of
orientation selectivity at that level. The results presented here redirect
attention to the retinal level since they reveal a previously unsuspected
systematic relation between orientation bias of ganglion cells and their location
relative to the area centralis.


PMID: 7402319  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Nature. 1980 Jul 24;286(5771):412-4.

Fraying of A-filaments into three subfilaments.

Maw MC, Rowe AJ.

Since Huxley established their bipolar structure, direct electron microsocpy of
A-filaments isolated from vertebrate skeletal muscle has yielded little further
interpretable information about the mode of packing of the myosin molecules
within the filament. Using A-filaments prepared from rat psoas muscle we have now
found it possible to induce clear fraying of these filaments into subfilaments,
by exposure of the preparation to very low ionic strength before contrasting with
uranyl acetate. The number of such filaments observed is generally (and never in 
excess of) three. Considerations of symmetry suggest that the formation of these 
frayed filaments is compatible only with a 'three stranded' model for the native 
A-filament, a finding in agreement with the balance of evidence recently
published using other techniques.


PMID: 7190649  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Nature. 1980 Jul 24;286(5771):401-3.

Polar redistribution of 125I-labelled insulin on the plasma membrane of cultured 
human lymphocytes.

Barazzone P, Carpentier JL, Gorden P, Van Obberghen E, Orci L.

Cultured human lymphocytes of the IM-9 line have specific binding sites for
125I-insulin that have been characterized in detail. When the hormone--cell
interaction was studied by quantitative electron microscopic (EM)
autoradiography, it was shown that initial binding was to the plasma membrane and
that at 37 degrees C a small fraction of the ligand was internalized by the cell.
The internalized ligand was found preferentially localized in lysosomes in the
Golgi region of the cell. It is well known that di- or multivalent ligands
redistribute in the plane of the membrane before internalization. We now report
that following initial binding the univalent ligand insulin also undergoes a
polar redistribution ('capping') before internalization.


PMID: 6995853  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Nature. 1980 Jul 24;286(5771):423-5.

Neutron scattering studies of lac repressor.

Charlier M, Maurizot JC, Zaccai G.

The lac repressor, a tetrameric protein of identical subunits [molecular weight
(MW) 4 x 38,500], interacts specifically with the lac operator, preventing the
expression of the structural genes of the lac operon. The presence of an inducer 
(such as isopropyl-beta-D-thiogalactoside; IPTG) which binds to the repressor,
prevents operator binding by lowering the association constant by a factor of
10(3) (ref. 3). Genetic and biochemical analysis have shown that the major
part--if not all--of the binding site for the lac operator is located in the 60
N-terminal residues of the protein. In certain conditions, limited trypsinolysis 
of the protein yields four N-terminal 'headpieces' each containing 51 or 59
residues, and a tetrameric core with full inducer binding activity. It was shown 
recently that this headpiece is able to bind nucleic acids, and interacts with
the lac operator, giving the same pattern of sensitivity with respect to the
methylation of the bases as does the intact repressor. We are studying the
interaction of lac repressor with DNA by neutron scattering using contrast
variation and discuss here measurements on the protein, its tryptic core and
their complexes with IPTG. Our results demonstrate that the headpieces are
located far (67 +/- 10 A) from the centre of mass of a somewhat elongated core,
and that the inducer does not significantly change the radius of gyration of the 
protein.


PMID: 6772965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Nature. 1980 Jul 24;286(5771):420-3.

Evolution of DNA sequences has been retarded in Malagasy primates.

Bonner TI, Heinemann R, Todaro GJ.

It is generally accepted that there are six major groups of living primates: (1) 
lemurs (including all the primates of Madagascar), (2) lorises (including galago 
and potto), (3) tarsiers, (4) New World monkeys, (5) Old World monkeys and (6)
apes (including man). Tree shrews, once considered to be primates, are now
generally recognized as not significantly more closely related to the six groups 
than other mammals. The first surviving primate lines to diverge from the common 
primate ancestor are believed to have given rise to one or more of the first
three groups. However, the fossil record is insufficient to determine their
relative branching order. Furthermore, neither morphological considerations nor
studies of protein evolution produce unanimity as to whether tarsiers are more
closely related to the prosimians (the lemurs plus lorises) or the simians (the
monkeys and apes). In an attempt to resolve these discrepancies, we have measured
the DNA sequence difference between several primates. We report here that the
evolution of DNA of primates from Madagascar is significantly less than that of
all other groups of living primates. This is not expected in the simplest form of
the theory of neutral selection and may be important for our understanding of
evolution at the molecular level.


PMID: 6772964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Nature. 1980 Jul 24;286(5771):356-9.

A signal sequence is not sufficient to lead beta-galactosidase out of the
cytoplasm.

Moreno F, Fowler AV, Hall M, Silhavy TJ, Zabin I, Schwartz M.

Escherichia coli strains have been constructed in which lacZ, the gene for the
cytoplasmic enzyme beta-galactosidase, is fused to lamB, the gene for an outer
membrane protein. One such strain produces a beta-galactosidase which remains
cytoplasmic even though it possesses the complete signal sequence of the lamB
protein precursor at the amino-terminal end.


PMID: 6772962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Nature. 1980 Jul 24;286(5771):425-6.

The caries resistance of human teeth is determined by the spatial arrangement of 
hydroxyapatite microcrystals in the enamel.

Cevc G, Cevc P, Schara M, Skaleric U.

Teeth from different people differ in their susceptibility to caries. The
beginning and the development of tooth decay depend on the presence of bacterial 
plaque and on the structure of the tooth enamel. But it has not been established 
whether the organic or the inorganic component of the enamel (which is comprised 
principally of hydroxyapatite microcrystals organized in a firm matrix), is
responsible for most of the resistance of teeth to caries. We report here that
the electron spin resonance (ESR) lines of the (CO3)3 defect of samples of enamel
prepared from caries-resistant teeth differ significantly from the corresponding 
spectra of the caries-sensitive samples. We have traced these differences to the 
hydroxyapatite microcrystalline alignment in the tooth enamel, and found that
this alignment is specific to individuals and is therefore probably nutritionally
or genetically determined.


PMID: 6250066  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Nature. 1980 Jul 24;286(5771):409-12.

Feline sarcoma virus polyprotein P115 binds a host phosphoprotein in transformed 
cells.

Reynolds FH Jr, Van de Ven WJ, Stephenson JR.

Several independent isoltes of feline sarcoma virus (FeSV) have been described.
Such viruses are apparently derived by genetic recombination between feline
leukaemia virus (FeLV) genomic RNA and host cellular genetic sequences with
transforming potential. Two FeSV isolates, one originally described by Gardner
and the second by Snyder-Theilen, have been shown to encode polyproteins of
around 115,000 molecular weight. Both polyproteins contain FeLV structural
components (p15, p12) at their amino terminus in addition to nonstructural
carboxyl terminal components encoded by acquired sequences within the FeSV
genome. We have previously shown that Gardner FeSV P115 contains multiple sites
of phosphorylation within its nonstructural component and possesses an associated
protein kinase activity. In the present study we describe the expression in cells
derived from a number of mammalian species, of a highly conserved celklular
phosphoprotein with binding affinity for Gardner FeSV P115. This protein,
designated P150, exhibits an associated protein kinase activity and is
immunologically and structurally distinct from polyproteins encoded by the
Gardner or Snyder-Theilen strains of FeSV.


PMID: 6250064  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Nature. 1980 Jul 24;286(5771):398-400.

Co-infection by lactic dehydrogenase virus and C-type retrovirus elicits
neurological disease.

Pease LR, Murphy WH.

Intraperitoneal injection of neuropathogenic strains of lactic dehydrogenase
virus (LDV) causes a histologically distinctive fatal paralytic disease
characterized by an inflammatory destruction of motor neurones in the brain stem 
and cord in C58 mice aged over 9 months. To elicit the disease in the naturally
susceptible C58 strain requires an age-associated or X-ray induced loss of
immunological competence, LDV infection and genetic susceptibility. Genetic
studies of the common inbred mouse strains showed that susceptibility to the
disease was not linked to the major histocompatibility complex but correlated
with the FV-1n allele, susceptibility to spontaneous leukaemia, and infection by 
neuropathogenic strains of LDV. These observations suggested that neuropathogenic
strains of LDV elicit the disease only in those strains of mice that carry
multiple copies of N-tropic C-type retroviruses in their genomes and that are
permissive for retrovirus replication. Presumably the expression of these viral
genomes (high titres of virus in tissues correlating with age) is the important
factor. Here we present genetic evidence to support this hypothesis and briefly
discuss the possible implications.


PMID: 6250063  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Nature. 1980 Jul 24;286(5771):352-6.

Insertion of the eukaryotic transposable element Ty1 creates a 5-base pair
duplication.

Farabaugh PJ, Fink GR.

The his4-912 mutation results from insertion of a transposable element into the
5'-non-coding region of the his4 gene of yeast. A duplication of 5 base pairs of 
wild-type his4 DNA flanks the inserted element. The major class of His+
revertants result from excision of most of the transposable element, leaving an
inserted segment of 334 base pairs flanked by the 5-base pair repeats.


PMID: 6250062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Nature. 1980 Jul 24;286(5771):346-51.

Three-dimensional structure of Escherichia coli initiator tRNAfMet.

Woo NH, Roe BA, Rich A.

The crystal structure of Escherichia coli tRNAfMet an initiator transfer RNA, has
been determined. While grossly similar to that of the chain-elongating yeast
tRNAPhe, there are three major differences. One involves the folding of the
anticodon loop; in particular, the position of the constant uridine, U33. This
difference was unexpected and may be of functional significance.


PMID: 6157105  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Nature. 1980 Jul 17;286(5770):300-1.

Compressed microfibril models of the native collagen fibril.

Trus BL, Piez KA.

A three-dimensional crystal model for packing of collagen molecules (type I) in
the native fibril has recently been proposed by Hulmes and Miller. It provides a 
straightforward explanation of the major features of the X-ray diffraction
pattern, and is consistent with measurements of fibril density. However, there is
independent evidence for a well defined microfibrillar substructure, which is
absent from their model. This evidence, which is derived from electron microscopy
and studies of in vitro assembly, the pattern of covalent crosslinks and sequence
analysis, is convincing. Therefore, we have searched for a means to reconcile
this conflict. We now propose two models which contain five-stranded microfibrils
compressed to place molecules (in cross-section) on a pseudohexagonal lattice.
The unit cells are equivalent or related to the cell proposed by Hulmes and
Miller. In the simplest case, molecules, and thus microfibrils, are
straight-tilted. However, it is not ruled out that molecules are supercoiled and 
microfibrils are straight. Noncrystallographic considerations favour
supercoiling.


PMID: 7402317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Nature. 1980 Jul 17;286(5770):295-7.

Metallothionein mRNA induction in HeLa cells in response to zinc or dexamethasone
is a primary induction response.

Karin M, Andersen RD, Slater E, Smith K, Herschman HR.

Metallothioneins (MTs) are low molecular weight, heavy metal binding proteins
unique in their high cysteine content and high affinity for Zn2+, Cd2+, Hg2+,
Ag2+ and Cu2+ (refs 1--3). The synthesis of MTs is induced by zinc or cadmium in 
the liver and kidney and in cultured cells. More recently MT induction by the
steroid hormone dexamethasone (Dex) has been demonstrated in HeLa cells and
adrenalectomized rats. Because glucocorticoid hormones lead to an intracellular
accumulation of zinc, the question arises of whether the induction of MT gene
expression by steroids is a 'primary induction response' (ref. 18), or due to
elevated intracellular Zn2+. The glucocorticoid-induced transport of Zn2+ is
dependent on concurrent protein synthesis. We now show that, in contrast to
glucocorticoid-stimulated Zn2+ transport, the Zn2+ and Dex induction of
translatable MT-mRNA is independent of concomitant protein synthesis but not RNA 
synthesis; that is, MT induction by either agent is a primary induction response.


PMID: 7402316  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Nature. 1980 Jul 17;286(5770):267-9.

Detection of a cell-surface antigen correlated with organ-specific metastasis.

Shearman PJ, Gallatin WM, Longenecker BM.

Despite the fact that tumour cells with the potential for metastasis may
circulate randomly, many demonstrate a preference for specific organs. Recently, 
several investigators have selected variant tumour cell lines with enhanced
capacity to metastasize to specific organs, mainly using the spontaneously
originating B16 melanoma cell line of the mouse and tumour variants with enhanced
capacity to metastasize to the lungs, brain and liver. We previously reported the
derivation of a liver-specific metastatic variant of a Marek's disease (MD)
virus-transformed, non-producer lymphoma cell line. MD is a naturally occurring, 
herpes virus-induced, T-cell lymphoma of chickens which bears pathological and
aetiological similarities to Burkitt's lymphoma in man. This makes MD a useful
model for study. One similarity is the pattern of metastasis in which both
lymphomas induce a high incidence of ovarian and liver lesions. We now report the
existence of a cell-surface antigen, detectable by a monoclonal antibody,
correlated with organ-specific metastasis.


PMID: 7402315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Nature. 1980 Jul 17;286(5770):262-4.

Vitamin D3 metabolites and PTH synergistically stimulate bone formation of chick 
embryonic femur in vitro.

Endo H, Kiyoki M, Kawashima K, Naruchi T, Hashimoto Y.

Bone remodelling depends on a balance formation and resorption. Little is known
of the biological factors involved in bone formation, whereas there is much
evidence that physiological factors, such as parathyroid hormone (PTH) and active
metabolites of vitamin D3, influence resorption. Cells responsible for
osteogenesis and and osteoclasis occur in close proximity, suggesting that both
might be controlled by the same physiological factors in the micro-environment of
the body fluid. To clarify the factors stimulating bone formation or accelerating
osteogenic cell activity, we have examined the effects of vitamin D3 metabolites 
and PTH on bone formation in vitro. We report here that combinations of those
metabolites especially 1 alpha,25-(OH)2D3 and 24R,25-(OH)2D3, directly stimulate 
calcification on bone synergistically with PTH.


PMID: 7402314  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Nature. 1980 Jul 17;286(5770):261-2.

Heterozygosity at enzyme loci and morphological variation.

Handford P.

Two recent reports have concerned the relationship between genic heterozygosity, 
as indicated by electrophoretically detected enzyme loci, and an individual's
tendency to depart from the mean on a variety of morphological traits. Using
different methods to assess differences in morphological variances between
homozygote and heterozygote classes, both conclude that homozygotes show a
significantly higher level of morphological variation. These conclusions are
important in that they seem to extend the phenomenon from studies on manipulated 
stocks of organisms to variation in natural populations. As Eanes points out, it 
is necessary to determine the generality of of this result. Both these studies
consider poikilotherm animals (a fish and an insect), so it would be particularly
interesting to look for the relationship in homoiotherms. As a contribution to
this end, I present here the results (Table 1) of an analysis of variation in the
Rufous-collared sparrow, Zonotrichia capensis. I found no difference in levels of
variation either between the homozygote and heterozygote classes or between
classes of individuals heterozygous at different numbers of loci. My results thus
suggest a difference between homoiotherms and poikilotherms in this phenomenon.


PMID: 7402313  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


361. Nature. 1980 Jul 17;286(5770):226-30.

Proximity of mRNA5'-region and 18S rRNA in eukaryotic initiation complexes.

Nakashima K, Darzynkiewicz E, Shatkin AJ.

Messenger RNA was covalently linked to 18S ribosomal RNA in eukaryotic 40S and
80S initiation complexes by photoreaction with an RNA cross-linking agent,
4'-substituted psoralen. The sites of interaction of the mRNA capped 5'-region
included some 3'-ends of 18S rRNA.


PMID: 7402312  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Nature. 1980 Jul 17;286(5770):279-81.

Evidence for two insulin receptor populations on human erythrocytes.

Herzberg V, Boughter JM, Carlisle S, Hill DE.

Human erythrocytes specifically bind 125I-insulin in a manner similar to cells in
which insulin exerts a physiological response. In addition, erythrocytes are of
practical value for correlating in vitro insulin binding with in vivo
carbohydrate intolerance. The competitive binding of labelled and unlabelled
insulin to erythrocyte receptor3 is typically curvilinear when plotted according 
to Scatchard. The curvilinear nature of the Scatchard plot describing insulin
binding to membrane receptors, although originally attributed to heterogeneous
sites, has been more recently interpreted as negative cooperativity between
homogenous sites. Evidence reported here, however, suggests that there are two
populations of insulin receptors on erythrocytes. Specific concentrations of
concanavalin A (Con A), a lectin which mimics insulin activity, are shown here to
inhibit one population of receptors leaving another population unaffected.


PMID: 6995852  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Nature. 1980 Jul 17;286(5770):293-4.

Proton NMR detection of acetylcholine status in synaptic vesicles.

Stadler H, Füldner HH.

The storage granules of cholinergic nerve terminals, the synaptic vesicles, have 
a central role in the mechanism of cholinergic transmission, and direct evidence 
as to whether acetylcholine is stored in them in a free or partially immobilized 
form is therefore of interest. In some secretory systems it has become evident
that low molecular weight secretion products are stored within the granules as
complexes with proteins or proteoglycans. The application of high resolution NMR 
spectroscopy to isolated granules has recently elucidated the internal structure 
of secretory granules. We report here that proton NMR analysis of isolated
cholinergic synaptic vesicles from Torpedo marmorata allows the identification of
acetylcholine within the organelle. The spectrum shows that all the acetylcholine
is dissolved in an essentially fluid phase within the core. Vesicular and
uncompartmentalized acetylcholine can be distinguished from each other and in
addition, any hydrolysis to choline and acetate can be monitored. The results
open the possibility of studying dynamics of acetylcholine pools and their
breakdown in cholinergic tissue by a direct and non-perturbing method.


PMID: 6250057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Nature. 1980 Jul 17;286(5770):285-7.

Molecular heterogeneity of benzodiazepine receptors.

Sieghart W, Karobath M.

Benzodiazepines exhibit reversible, stereospecific high affinity binding to
mammalian brain membranes, and the respective binding sites for 3H-flunitrazepam 
represent pharmacologically and clinically relevant receptors for
benzodiazepines. Recently it has been demonstrated that reversibly bound
3H-flunitrazepam becomes irreversibly attached to a specific membrane protein
with apparent molecular weight of 50,000 when incubations are performed in the
presence of UV light. Irreversible binding of 3H-flunitrazepam to this protein
had pharmacological properties similar to reversible benzodiazepine receptor
binding, indicating that 3H-flunitrazepam is a photoaffinity label for the
benzodiazepine receptor. Using irreversible binding of 3H-flunitrazepam and
subsequent electrophoretic separation of the labelled proteins in SDS-gels
followed by fluorography, we found that in hippocampus and several other brain
regions at least two different types of benzodiazepine receptors exist. Each
seems to be associated with a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor.


PMID: 6250054  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Nature. 1980 Jul 17;286(5770):281-2.

An effect of chloride on (Na+K) co-transport in human red blood cells.

Chipperfield AR.

In certain conditions, internal K can stimulte active Na:K transport as well as
Na:Na exchange through the ouabain-sensitive Na, K exchange pump. When the
exchange was examined during a study of the action of internal K, it emerged that
the removal of K0 (the main requirement for Na:Na exchange) reduced the
ouabain-insensitive Na efflux. Thus, in eight experiments done variously with
outdated cells or high and low [K]i, PCMBS-treated cells, the K0-dependent Na
efflux ranged from 0.18 to 0.70 muEquiv per ml cells per h. This conflicts with
the well established view that the K0-dependent and ouabain-sensitive components 
of Na efflux are identical. However, the K0-dependent, ouabain-insensitive Na
efflux was found to go through the (Na+K) co-transport system, which was further 
found to show a dependence on chloride ions.


PMID: 6250053  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Nature. 1980 Jul 17;286(5770):276-9.

Insulin stimulates sugar transport in giant muscle fibres of the barnacle.

Baker PF, Carruthers A.

Insulin stimulates sugar transport in vertebrate skeletal muscle but the
mechanism of insulin action is unknown. It has been reported that Na transport in
giant muscle fibers of the barnacle (Balanus nubilis) is sensitive to insulin but
no one has examined the sensitivity of sugar tansport to insulin in this
preparation. We show here that insulin does, indeed, stimulate sugar transport in
barnacle muscle. The great advantage of barnacle muscle over all other muscles
used so far for investigating the mechanism of insulin action is its large size, 
which facilitates measurements on single cells and permits the experimenter to
control the intracellular environment of the muscle fibre by the technique of
internal dialysis. Using single muscle fibres it is possible to show that
acceleration of sugar transport by insulin is associated with a fall in ionized
Ca, a fall in cyclic AMP and a rise in cyclic GMP. Working with internally
dialysed muscle fibres we find that insulin only increases sugar transport when
the dialysis solution contains ATP. In the absence of insulin, sugar transport is
dialysed muscle is increased by a rise in ionized Ca, a fall in cyclic AMP and,
when the internal Ca is elevated, by a rise in cyclic GMP.


PMID: 6250052  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Nature. 1980 Jul 17;286(5770):274-6.

Increased proton conductance pathway in brown adipose tissue mitochondria of rats
exhibiting diet-induced thermogenesis.

Brooks SL, Rothwell NJ, Stock MJ, Goodbody AE, Trayhurn P.

It has recently been demonstrated that in rats induced to overeat by being fed a 
varied and palatable diet (the 'cafeteria diet') there is a marked increase in
heat production which serves to reduce, or prevent, the development of obesity.
This diet-induced thermogenesis is associated with increases in sympathetic
activity, and with changes in brown adipose tissue. Following cafeteria feeding, 
brown adipose tissue hypertrophies and and exhibits increased lipolysis and an
apparently greater thermogenesis in response to noradrenaline. These metabolic
changes resemble those seen during non-shivering thermogenesis in cold-adapted
rats, and it was proposed that non-shivering thermogenesis and diet-induced
thermogenesis have a similar metabolic origin which depends on the unique
capacity of brown adipose tissue for thermogenesis. During non-shivering
thermogenesis heat is produced in brown adipose tissue through a proton
conductance pathway across the inner mitochondrial membrane that dissipates the
proton gradient generated by respiration. The activity of the proton conductance 
pathway can be modulated by purine nucleotides, and changes in the pathway seem
to be related to the level of purine nucleotide binding to brown adipose tissue
mitochondria. We now report results which indicate that the proton conductance
pathway is augmented in cafeteria-fed rats, and suggest that it operates to
dissipate their excess energy intake through diet-induced thermogenesis


PMID: 6250051  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Nature. 1980 Jul 17;286(5770):264-5.

Leukotriene B, a potent chemokinetic and aggregating substance released from
polymorphonuclear leukocytes.

Ford-Hutchinson AW, Bray MA, Doig MV, Shipley ME, Smith MJ.

Arachidonic acid is metabolised either by cyclooxygenases to produce
prostaglandins and thromboxanes or by lipoxygenases to produce mono-, di- and
trihydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids (HETEs). Polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs)
release HETEs, including mono- and dihydroxy fatty acids, when exposed to stimuli
such as the calcium ionophore A23187 (refs 1, 2). The mono-HETEs are assumed to
be of particular importance with respect to effects on leukocyte function because
they have been shown to possess both chemotactic and chemokinetic activities
towards PMNs and eosinophils. However, we have now shown that the chemokinetic
and aggregating activities released from rat and human PMNs exposed to ionophore 
A23187 (ref. 5) are not due to the release of mono-HETEs but to that of 5,
12-di-HETE (leukotriene B). This compound is active over the concentration range 
10 pg ml-1 to 5 ng ml-1.


PMID: 6250050  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Nature. 1980 Jul 17;286(5770):222-6.

A mouse alpha-globin-related pseudogene lacking intervening sequences.

Vanin EF, Goldberg GI, Tucker PW, Smithies O.

A mouse alpha-globin-related pseudogene (psi alpha 30.5) completely lacks
intervening sequences, and could not code for a functional globin poypeptide
because of frameshifts. The widespread occurrence of globin pseudogenes in other 
species suggests that they are not 'dead' genes but may be important in
controlling globin expression.


PMID: 6250049  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Nature. 1980 Jul 17;286(5770):218-22.

Invertible DNA determines host specificity of bacteriophage mu.

van de Putte P, Cramer S, Giphart-Gassler M.

The function of the invertible G region of bacteriophage Mu is apparently to
confer different host specificities on Mu. Two products of genes S and U,
situated in the G region are not needed for the infectivity of Mu G(-) particles.
In the Mu G(-) phage the S gene product and the 21-K polypeptide, presumably the 
product of gene U, are missing. Instead, two other polypeptides with different
molecular weights are observed.


PMID: 6250048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Nature. 1980 Jul 17;286(5770):287-8.

Axoplasmic transport of muscarinic receptors.

Laduron P.

The reality of axoplasmic transport is widely accepted; various
neutrotransmitters, enzymes, labelled proteins and peptides are known to move
rapidly along the axons of different nerve fibres. In the terminals of
sympathetic nerves, noradrenaline release is controlled by various regulatory
mechanisms which imply the occurrence of presynaptic receptors. In this regard,
there is considerable indirect physiological evidence for the existence of
muscarinic cholinergic receptors in the sympathetic nerve endings; the
stimulation by acetylcholine of such presynaptic receptors elicits an inhibitory 
effect on noradrenaline release. We not provide direct biochemical evidence for
the occurrence in dog splenic nerve of muscarinic receptors which seem to move
along the axon as suggested by their rapid accumulation on either side of a
ligature.


PMID: 6157104  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Nature. 1980 Jul 17;286(5770):272-4.

Small subunit of I-A subregion antigens determines the allospecificity recognized
by a monoclonal antibody.

Silver J, Swain SL, Hubert JJ.

The murine major histocompatibility complex (MHC) codes for three groups of
identifiable cell-surface proteins, the K, D molecules, the I-A subregion
antigens and the I-E subregion antigens. All three groups of molecules display a 
high degree of serologically detectable polymorphism and consist of two
noncovalently associated polypeptides. Amino acid sequence and peptide
comparisons among allotypes of K, D and I-E molecules reveals that one
polypeptide is relatively constant, whereas the other is highly variable. Thus,
it is likely that only one of the two polypeptides, the variable component,
determines the antigenic specificities recognized by alloantisera. In contrast to
the K, D anad I-E molecules, both subunits of I-A molecules display substantial
structural differences when comparisons among allotypes are made. Therefore, we
have investigated whether one or both subunits of I-A molecules determine their
alloantigenic specificities. Our results, presented here, indicate that only one 
of the two subunits determines a particular allospecificity recognized by a
monoclonal antibody.


PMID: 6157103  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Nature. 1980 Jul 17;286(5770):270-2.

T-cell hybridoma bearing heavy chain variable region determinants producing
(T,G)-A--L-specific helper factor.

Eshhar Z, Apte RN, Löwy I, Ben-Neriah Y, Givol D, Mozes E.

Thymus-derived lymphocytes (T cells) exert their regulatory effect (help or
suppression) on the antibody production by B cells either by direct cell to cell 
interaction or by soluble mediators or factors. The low frequency of specific T
cells, the heterogeneity of their responses and their relatively short life span 
have hampered the molecular characterization of the antigen recognition unit of T
cells, and its structure is largely unknown. The lymphocyte hybridization
technique, which has been found very useful for the production of B-cell
hybridomas secreting specific monoclonal antibodies, has also been used for the
generation of homogeneous and stable T-cell hybridomas with unlimited growth
potential. So far the only specific effector function demonstrated in the
established T hybridomas is the property to generate a factor(s) which suppresses
antibody responses. We now describe the establishment of hybrid lines which
exhibit characteristic T-cell markers. One of the hybridomas (denoted R-9)
releases into the culture supernatant factor(s) with helper activity specific to 
the synthetic polypeptide (T,G)-A--L and bears surface determinants of the
immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region (VH). Such hybrid cell lines are of
great value for studies on the nature of the T-cell receptor.


PMID: 6157102  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Nature. 1980 Jul 17;286(5770):266-7.

Identification of an interferon in murine placentas.

Fowler AK, Reed CD, Giron DJ.

It is becoming increasingly apparent that interferon exerts a major role in
cellular regulatory processes. Besides its well known antiviral properties,
interferon has been shown to affect cell surface antigen expression, lymphoid
cell function, as well as cellular protein synthesis and growth. To date,
however, there is little information available on the mechanism of interferon
production in vivo except in response to a variety of exogenously administered
viral and nonviral systemic inducers. We report here the detection of a
pregnancy-associated elevation of interferon, or an interferon-like component, in
selected reproductive tissues of mice.


PMID: 6157101  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Nature. 1980 Jul 17;286(5770):231-5.

Monoclonal antibodies which recognize different cell types in the rat retina.

Barnstable CJ.

Seven monoclonal antibodies have been produced against a membrane preparation
from adult rat retina. Three antibodies reacted with particular regions of rat
photoreceptor cell surfaces: RET-P1 labelled the cell bodies, outer and inner
segments (rods but not cones), RET-P2 labelled only outer segments and RET-P3
labelled only the cell bodies. Three antibodies reacted with glial cells; RET-G2 
and RET-G3 were specific for Müller cells, RET-G1 also labelled glia elsewhere in
brain. The seventh antibody (RET-N1) reacted with many types of neuronal cells.


PMID: 6157100  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Nature. 1980 Jul 10;286(5769):157-9.

The role of D-1 and D-2 receptors.

Schachter M, Bédard P, Debono AG, Jenner P, Marsden CD, Price P, Parkes JD,
Keenan J, Smith B, Rosenthaler J, Horowski R, Dorow R.

Dopamine receptors in intracerebral motor and endocrine systems have been divided
into two main types, D-1 and D-2, dependent on the presence or absence of
adenylate cyclase linkage. Here we have investigated a number of dopamine agonist
and antagonist drugs in man that have different actions on D-1 and D-2 receptors 
in animals. Motor and endocrine effects in parkinsonian subjects seem to depend
on drug interaction with D-2, but not D-1, receptors. These results may have
important implications for the design of anti-parkinsonian and antipsychotic
agents.


PMID: 7402308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Nature. 1980 Jul 10;286(5769):154-5.

Spontaneous and mechanically evoked activity due to central demyelinating lesion.

Smith KJ, McDonald WI.

Patients with multiple sclerosis commonly complain of tingling and other sensory 
disturbances which may occur spontaneously or in response to movement. These
symptoms are associated with plaques of demyelination in the corresponding
sensory pathways but the physiological abnormalities underlying the symptoms are 
not understood. We have examined sensory fibres traversing a central demyelinated
lesion resembling that of multiple sclerosis for evidence of activity which could
account for the symptoms. We present here evidence for the existence of
spontaneously and mechanically induced trains of action potentials propagating in
both directions from the lesion.


PMID: 7402307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Nature. 1980 Jul 10;286(5769):123-7.

The influence of codon context on genetic code translation.

Bossi L, Roth JR.

A class of mutations that increase the deficiency of a suppressor tRNA in
translating a particular amber codon has been characterized. The increased
efficiency is due to a mutation resulting in a change in the mRNA that affects
the nucleotide adjacent to the 3' side of the UAG triplet. Thus the interaction
of tRNA with mRNA is influenced by mRNA sequences outside the triplet codon.


PMID: 7402305  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Nature. 1980 Jul 10;286(5769):176-8.

Efficiency of the adaptive response of Escherichia coli to alkylating agents.

Cairns J.

When cultures of Escherichia coli are exposed to a low level of the alkylating
agent N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) they accumulate mutations for
about 20 min and then become resistant to further mutagenesis by that level of
MNNG. This 'adaptive response, has been shown to be due, at least in part, to
induction of the rapid repair of O6-alkylguanine which appears to be the main
mutagenic and carcinogenic lesion produced by simple alkylating agents. A similar
kind of repair has been demonstrated in the livers of rats exposed to
nitrosamines, and this presumably helps to protect animals against carcinogenesis
by the various alkylating agents thjat are widespread in our environment. It
seemed important, therefore, to find out just how effectively such adaptive
responses can control mutations rates.


PMID: 6995851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Nature. 1980 Jul 10;286(5769):174-6.

Secretion requires a cytoplasmically disposed sulphydryl of the RER membrane.

Jackson RC, Walter P, Blobel G.

The capacity of the rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) membrane of eukaryotic
cells in translocate nascent presecretory proteins from the cytosol to the
intracisternal space is preserved on cell fractionation and can be assayed in
vitro. Two attempts to characterize this translocation activity have been
reported. Warren and Dobberstein reported that microsomal membranes can be
depleted of their translocation activity by extraction with a solution of high
ionic strength (500 mM KCl) and that activity can be restored to the depleted
membranes by re-addition of the salt extract. On the other hand, Walter et al.
reported that KCl extraction of the microsomal membrane does not result in
complete depletion of its translocation activity. However, mild trypsinization of
the microsomal membrane released a tryptic fragment(s) from the membrane which,
when recombined with a tryptically inactivated membrane fraction, restored
translocation activity. We now show that both the trypsin and the KCl extracted
factors, but not the membrane-integrated remainder of the translocation
apparatus, contain at least one sulphydryl group that is essential for activity.


PMID: 6995850  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Nature. 1980 Jul 10;286(5769):128-32.

Analysis of regulation of Klebsiella pneumoniae nitrogen fixation (nif) gene
cluster with gene fusions.

Dixon R, Eady RR, Espin G, Hill S, Iaccarino M, Kahn D, Merrick M.

Gene fusions in which the lac genes are under the control of each promoter in the
Klebsiella pneumoniae, nitrogen fixation (nif) gene cluster have been
constructed. These fusions have been used to examine positive control of the
cluster and the response of individual genes to repression by ammonia and oxygen.
De-repression of nif transcriptional units is coordinate and molybdate is
required for maximal expression of the structural gene operon, which is
autogenously regulated.


PMID: 6995849  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Nature. 1980 Jul 10;286(5769):166-8.

Phenotypic changes of phytohaemagglutinin-stimulated hairy cells.

Guglielmi P, Preud'homme JL, Flandrin G.

Hairy cell leukaemia (leukaemic reticuloendotheliosis) appears to be a
homogeneous and well defined disease on the basis of clinical presentation, light
and electron microscopic features and cytochemical characteristics, but the study
of immunological markers of hairy cells (HC) from many patients reveals apparent 
heterogeneity. The most common phenotype associates B-cell and monocytic
properties: HC usually express monoclonal surface (and in certain cases
cytoplasmic) immunoglobulins, receptors for IgM and IgG Fc, and mouse
erythrocytes, and la-like antigens. Additionally, they are capable of
phagocytosis, glass adherence, lysozyme and peroxidase synthesis. However, most
of these features are not constant and cases have been reported in which HC fail 
to express one or more of these properties. In certain cases HC even display a
T-cell phenotype, while, in others, features of both T and B cells are expressed.
Moreover, in two recently studied patients, the phenotype of HC in the blood
differed from that in the spleen (B + T in the blood and B in the spleen). These 
surprising discrepancies led us to hypothesize that HC from the same individual
might be able to express different phenotypes following an appropriate stimulus. 
We therefore studied immunological parameters of HC stimulated by mitogens and
the results indeed showed that after stimulation by phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) the
cells switched from B to T or B + T phenotypes.


PMID: 6967566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Nature. 1980 Jul 10;286(5769):168-70.

The immunoglobulin mu constant region gene is expressed in mouse thymocytes.

Kemp DJ, Wilson A, Harris AW, Shortman K.

It has been a matter of controversy whether the functional capacity of T cells to
discriminate between antigens is mediated via immunoglobulin, an
immunoglobulin-like molecule, or by the product(s) of unrelated genes. The
progenitors of immunoglobulin-secreting cells, B cells, express membrane-bound
immunoglobulin as the antigen-specific receptor on their surface. For T cells,
although products of immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region genes are
implicated as receptor components, there has been no compelling immunochemical
evidence for participation of either immunoglobulin light chains or heavy chain
constant regions (see refs 2-6 for the disparate views). Recently, using cloned
immunoglobulin DNA sequences as hybridization probes, we have demonstrated that
the immunoglobulin Cmu gene, but not the Cmu gene, is expressed as polyadenylated
RNA in some T cell tumour (T lymphoma) cell lines. Individual T lymphoma lines
yielded up to three discrete mu RNA species of different sizes (1.9, 2.2 and 3.0 
kilobases), each species being different in size from the major mu RNA species
present in B lymphoma cells (2.4 and 2.7 kilobases). We show here that cells from
the normal mouse thymus contain mu RNA species, indistinguishable in size from
those in T lymphoma cells, but contain little if any kappa RNA.


PMID: 6772961  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Nature. 1980 Jul 10;286(5769):185-6.

Calcium-induced decrease in membrane fluidity of sea urchin egg cortex after
fertilization.

Campisi J, Scandella CJ.

Fertilization of the sea urchin egg is a dramatic example of cell activation
resulting from the interaction of an external stimulus, the spermatozoon, with
the cell surface. Growing and quiescent cells may have different membrane states.
Here we report membrne fluidity measurements on a surface membrane fraction, the 
cortex, isolated from unfertilized and fertilized eggs. The fluidity of the
fertilized egg cortex, measured by electron spin resonance (ESR) spectroscopy
using 5-doxylstearate as a probe, is less than that of the unfertilized cortex.
In the intact egg the intracellular CA2+ to the cortex fraction isolated from
unfertilized eggs triggers a fluidity decrease in vitro. The fluidity decrease
seems to represent a Ca2+-induced change in membrane structure rather than a
direct interaction of Ca2+ with phospholipid headgroups.


PMID: 6250045  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Nature. 1980 Jul 10;286(5769):182-5.

A pyrimidine dimer-DNA glycosylase activity associated with the v gene product of
bacterophage T4.

Radany EH, Friedberg EC.

Mutations in the v gene of bacteriophage T4 are associated with a marked increase
in sensitivity to killing by UV radiation at 254 nm, but not to a variety of
other forms of base damage to DNA. Early studies from this laboratory provided
evidence for a role of the v gene in the excision of pyrimidine dimers (PD) from 
DNA. Specifically, it was shown that extracts of T4v+-infected Escherichia coli
catalyse the formation of single-strand breaks (nicks) and/or alkali-labile sites
in UIV-irradiated duplex DNA. Comparable hydrolysis of phosphodiester bonds is
not observed with extracts of E. coli infected with the mutant T4v1 (ref. 5). The
product of the v gene has been extensively purified in a number of laboratories; 
however, convincing evidence of purification to physical homogeneity has not yet 
been presented.


PMID: 6250044  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Nature. 1980 Jul 10;286(5769):170-3.

An unusual translocation of immunoglobulin gene segments in variants of the mouse
myeloma MPC11.

Schnell H, Steinmetz M, Zachau HG, Schechter I.

Immunoglobulin light chain genes of the mouse are composed in germ-line DNA of
four separate segments, the leader, V (variable), J (joining) and C (constant)
segments. In immunocompetent cells a V and J gene segment are joined by a
site-specific recombination event. In variants of the mouse myeloma MPC11 a
so-called kappa (k) light chain fragment is expressed which consists of the
MOPC321 leader peptide, joined to the kappa constant region peptide. Using the
Southern blotting technique we found that the gene coding for the light chain
fragment has apkparently been generated by an aberrant translocation of a V gene 
segment identical or very similar to the MOPC321 V gene segment into the large
intervening sequence between the J and the C gene segments. The resulting
deletion of the splice signals of the J segments could be the reason for the
observed splicing between leader and C region sequences, a phenomenon which may
be of general interest for the understanding of the splicing mechanism.


PMID: 6250042  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Nature. 1980 Jul 10;286(5769):159-60.

Alpha-Adrenergic receptors modulate beta-receptor affinity in rat kidney
membranes.

Woodcock EA, Johnston CI.

Adrenergic receptors were first classified into two calsses--alpha and beta--on
the basis of the relative pharmacological potencies of agonist compounds, and
this classification has been supported by subsequent studies. In some tissues,
such as the heart and liver, they exert similar physiological responses, and in
other tissues, such as the uterus and vasculature, they have opposing roles. The 
occurrence of both classes of receptor in the same tissue lewwds to the problem
of what determines whether the overall response observed is alpha-type or
beta-type, as adrenaline and noradrenaline bind to both receptor classes.
Furthermore, direct binding studies have demonstrated that the two receptor
classes are distinct and separate entities. We show here that stimulation of
alpha-receptors in renal membranes causes a specific decrease in the affinity of 
the agonist compound isoprenaline for beta-receptors in the same membranes. This 
demonstrates that interactions occur between renal alpha- and beta-adrenergic
receptors. Such interactions may modulate the response of the kidney to
sympathetic stimulation.


PMID: 6250041  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Nature. 1980 Jul 10;286(5769):178-80.

Virus-specific effects of interferon in embryonal carcinoma cells.

Nilsen TW, Wood DL, Baglioni C.

Embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells are susceptible to infection by a variety of
viruses, but do not become resistant to infection by Semliki Forest virus or
vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) on treatment with interferon. These observations
have led to the conclusion that interferon does not induce an antiviral state in 
EC cells. We report here, however, that EC cells treated with interferon become
resistant to infection by two picornaviruses and two ts mutants of VSV, whereas
they remain sensitive to wild-type VSV, Sindbis and influenza virus infectin.
These results suggest that a partial antiviral state is induced in EC cells by
interferon and that the induced antiviral protein(s) interferes with the
replication of specific viruses. A significant common feature of these viruses is
their replication through structures containing double-stranded RNA (dsRNA).


PMID: 6157099  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Nature. 1980 Jul 10;286(5769):162-4.

Identification of a tetrodotoxin-sensitive Na+ channel in a variety in fibroblast
lines.

Pouysségur J, Jacques Y, Lazdunski M.

The action potential Na+ ionophore of excitable cells can be activated either by 
alkaloid compounds such as veratridine, or by small polypeptide toxins extracted 
from scorpion venom or sea anemone. One of the main features of this Na+ channel 
is that it is blocked by tetrodotoxin (TTX). However, we report here that during 
analysis of Na+ influx in resting fibroblasts, we found that a variety of
fibroblast lines also possess a TTX receptor. Veratridine and sea anemone toxin
act synergistically to stimulate Na+ influx 7 to 10-fold in hamster and rat
fibroblasts. As in excitable cells, this toxin-stimulated Na+ influx is blocked
by TTX. Addition of serum to hamster fibroblasts arrested in G0 stimulates Na+
influx three-fold. Observations that TTX does not prevent serum-activated Na+
influx, initiation of DNA synthesis and cell proliferation suggest that the fast 
Na+ channel which we have identified in fibroblasts is not involved in growth
control.


PMID: 6105618  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Nature. 1980 Jul 3;286(5768):33-9.

Structure of southern bean mosaic virus at 2.8 A resolution.

Abad-Zapatero C, Abdel-Meguid SS, Johnson JE, Leslie AG, Rayment I, Rossmann MG, 
Suck D, Tsukihara T.

X-ray diffraction studies reveal that the polypeptide chain of the southern bean 
mosaic virus protein subunit has a fold closely similar to the shell domain of
tomato bushy stunt virus. The protruding domain of tomato bushy stunt virus is
absent in southern bean mosaic virus. The tertiary structure observed in these
viruses may be particularly suitable for the formation of the protein coat in
small, spherical, RNA-containing, plant viruses.


PMID: 19711553 


391. Nature. 1980 Jul 3;286(5768):84-6.

Electrophoresis of proteins in intercellular bridges.

Woodruff RI, Telfer WH.

Cytoplasmic polarity giving rise at mitosis to daughter cells with distinct but
complementary morphogenetic functions has been proposed by Jaffe and co-workers
to have transcellular ion currents as one of its essential physiological steps.
The clearest evidence is from fucoid eggs in which such currents have been shown 
to parallel the prospective axis of germination. The currents are caused by
stabilized accumulations of cation pumps on one side of the cell, and of
permeability channels on the opposite side; they are strong enough to suggest
that the accompanying gradient in electrical potential could have an
electrophoretic effect on the distribution of cytoplasmic constituents, including
those that serve as morphogenetic determinants. Although ion currents correlated 
with axes of morphogenesis have thus been clearly established, their effects on
intracellular localizations and morphogenetic activity have remained speculative.
We report here evidence that an endogenously generated gradient in electrical
potential in the oocyte-nurse cell syncytium of Hyalophora cercropia can, in
fact, influence the distribution of soluble proteins in a cytoplasmic continuum.


PMID: 7393329  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Nature. 1980 Jul 3;286(5768):77-9.

Behavioural variants of rat neuroblastoma cells.

Culp LA.

Study of the biological function of the cells of the nervous system has benefited
from the isolation of cloned glial or neuronal tumour cell lines that can be
induced to differentiate in culture. Many of their differentiated properties
reflect specific biochemical changes at the cell surface, and we have observed
changes in cytoskeletal organization and glycosaminoglycan-containing
proteoglycan content in the tissue culture substratum adhesion sites of
neuroblastoma cells during neurite extension. To assist in defining structure
function relationships of cell surface components of rodent neuroblastoma cells, 
I have used two cell-surface-active agents to select for phenotypically-stable
varinats of these cells which display some unique properties and which will be
useful for further biochemical and physiological analyses.


PMID: 7393328  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Nature. 1980 Jul 3;286(5768):68-71.

Activity-dependent extracellular K+ fluctuations in canine Purkinje fibres.

Kline RP, Cohen I, Falk R, Kupersmith J.

Cardiac Purkinje fibres are important in cardiac electrophysiology and pathology 
due to their specialized role in the ventricular conducting system, and their
properties as a second cardiac pacemaker. Changes in extracellular K+ activity
(Ko) affect the conduction velocity and the natural automatic rate of the
Purkinje fibre. Both anatomical and electrophysiological studies of the Purkinje 
fibres have demonstrated the possibility of Ko fluctuations in the narrow
intercellular clefts. We investigated using K+ selective electrodes, the effect
of the Ko fluctuations observed during activity in canine Purkinje fibres.
Summation of Ko fluctuations during single action potentials leads to elevation
of baseline Ko during rapid trains. However, unlike in ventricular muscle where
depolarization is seen, membrane potential is non-automatic Purkinje fibres
hyperpolarizes in response to rapid beating. Prolonged depletions of
extracellular K+ following long periods of overdrive are associated with slowly
changing membrane currents, which markedly influence automaticity, action
potential duration, and membrane potential.


PMID: 7393326  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Nature. 1980 Jul 3;286(5768):67-8.

Testosterone-sensitive neurones respond to oestradiol but not to
dihydrotestosterone.

Kendrick KM, Drewett RF.

Testosterone is aromatized to oestradiol in the brain, and it has been suggested 
that its effects on the brain are produced by this metabolite. Oestradiol does
indeed restore sexual behaviour in castrated rats, but is is much more effective 
if combined with a second metabolite, dihydrotestosterone. This may be because
the two hormones have a synergistic effect on the brain; or because the central
effect of oestradiol synergises with the peripheral effects of
dihydrotestosterone (which include stimulation of penile development). Evidence
that the corticomedial amygdala (CMA) and the preoptic area of the rat brain are 
both involved in the control of sexual behaviour led us to examine the neurones
of the stria terminalis that connect the two. These neurones are
hormone-sensitive; their absolute refractory period is lengthened by castration
and reduced again by testosterone. So we have investigated the aromatization
hypothesis further by examining the effect of oestradiol and dihydrotestosterone 
on these testosterone-sensitive neurones. Oestradiol has exactly the same effect 
as testosterone; dihydrotestosterone has no effect, whether it is given alone or 
in combination with oestradiol.


PMID: 7393325  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Nature. 1980 Jul 3;286(5768):64-5.

Eye movement in strabismic cats.

Cynader M, Harris L.

Strabismus is a common clinical condition in which the visual axes of the eyes do
not intersect on the object being viewed. As such, the ability to achieve single 
binocular vision by fusing the images of a single object in the two eyes is lost.
In most cases of strabismus, one of the two eyes is clearly deviated and the
other eye is used for fixation, although in some cases each eye is used
alternately for fixation. While much attention has been devoted to the motor
capabilities of the deviating eye in strabismus, little attention has been given 
to the visuomotor competence of the other eye. We report here that, if one eye of
a kitten is made to deviate by surgery, the visuomotor capacities of the other,
"normal", eye are affected. A reduction in the ability to follow the movement of 
a large striped drum is observed with binocular viewing, even when stimuli are
viewed monocularly with the normal eye. This means that anomalous visual input
from the deviated eye during stimulation is not the cause of the reduced
oculomotor capacities.


PMID: 7393323  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Nature. 1980 Jul 3;286(5768):59-62.

A curiosity of light adaptation.

Mollon JD, Polden PG.

By standard psychophysical procedures it is possible to arrange that visual
discriminations depend only on signals originating in the violet-sensitive
receptors of the eye. A person's vision then shows several characteristic
properties: differential sensitivity is lower than when the green- and
red-sensitive cones contribute to detection, spatial and temporal resolution is
poorer, and a number of anomalies of adaptation reveal themselves, including the 
saturation that we have demonstrated when violet targets are presented on steady 
blue or violet adapting fields. Saturation" refers to the empirical finding that 
as the intensity (I) of the short-wavelength field increases, the threshold
intensity (delta I) for detecting a violet target rises much more rapidly than is
described by Weber's law (delta I/I = constant). These earlier results
(replicated here; see Fig. 2, right-hand data), were obtained in what would
conventionally be regarded as equilibrium conditions, in that thresholds were
measured after 4 min of adaptation to the steady field. Here we examine a very
odd aspect of the phenomenon: the threshold reaches its saturated state only
after passing through a much lower value.


PMID: 7393321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Nature. 1980 Jul 3;286(5768):25-8.

Nerve growth factors in the rat iris.

Ebendal T, Olson L, Seiger A, Hedlund KO.

Nerve growth factor (NGF) activity was not detected by bioassay in irides killed 
immediately after excision but NGF appeared within 24 h in living irides placed
in culture or grafted to a host eye. Furthermore, sensory and, although less
effective, sympathetic denervation of irides in situ led within 10 days to the
appearance of NGF activity. In addition, freezing and thawing released a
parasympathetic neuronotrophic factor activity from irides.


PMID: 7393320  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Nature. 1980 Jul 3;286(5768):79-80.

Ammonia inhibits phagosome-lysosome fusion in macrophages.

Gordon AH, Hart PD, Young MR.

When foreign bodies, including many microorganisms, are ingested by cultured
macrophages, they become enclosed in phagosomes, with which lysosomes usually
fuse and then discharge their enzymes and other contents into the resulting
phagolysosomes. Such fusion is, however, diminished or absent after the
phagocytosis of some pathogens, notably Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Toxoplasma
gondii. Assuming that the nonfusion is due to active inhibition by the
intrapoagosomal microbe, identification of an inhibitor should clarify the
lysosomal control mechanism. It has been suggested that strongly acidic
sulphatides present in virulent tuberculosis, which, like other substances with
polyanionic structural features, can themselves block phagosome-lysosome fusion
(P-LF), may contribute to the negative lysosome response to ingested tubercle
bacilli. We report here another possibility, based on inhibition of fusion of
yeast-containing phagosomes by filtrates from cultures of tubercle bacilli on
traditional-type defined media; we show that the ammonia content of such
filtrates is sufficient to account for their effect. This inhibition of fusion
seems to be an hitherto unrecognized intracellular consequence of added ammonia, 
in striking contrast to the enhancement produced by some lipophilic amines.


PMID: 6993961  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Nature. 1980 Jul 3;286(5768):71-3.

Single acetylcholine-activated channels show burst-kinetics in presence of
desensitizing concentrations of agonist.

Sakmann B, Patlak J, Neher E.

High resolution measurements of the current through individual ion channels
activated by acetylcholine (AChR- channels) in frog muscle have shown that these 
currents are discrete pulse-like events with durations of a few milliseconds.
Fluctuation and relaxation measurements of end-plate currents have led to the
conclusion that the rate of channel opening increases with agonist
concentrations, and that the channel, once open, closes spontaneously. Katz and
Thesleff have shown, however, that in the continued presence of ACh, the initial 
end-plate current declines to an equilibrium value with a time constant of
several seconds. This reversible phenomenon is referred to as receptor
desensitization. We report here that in the presence of ACh concentrations
sufficient to cause desensitization, single channel current pulses appear in
groups. From the temporal sequence of the pulses, we have derived estimates of
the rates of activation and desensitization of the AChR-channel.


PMID: 6248795  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Nature. 1980 Jul 3;286(5768):29-32.

Comparison of white pock (h) mutants of monkeypox virus with parental monkeypox
and with variola-like viruses isolated from animals.

Dumbell KR, Archard LC.

Monkeypox mutants arising spontaneously or after serial, high multiplicity
passage were characterized phenotypically and by restriction endonuclease
mapping. Some resemble "whitepox" and variola viruses in several of the markers
tested but all are distinguishable phenotypically from these. None resembles
"whitepox" viruses in genome structure although near-terminal deletions or
symmetrical, terminal rearrangements, relative to parental monkeypox, occurred.
"Whitepox" viruses isolated from animals closely resemble variola in both
phenotype and genome structure.


PMID: 6248794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Nature. 1980 Jun 26;285(5767):661-2.

Macrophages overcome mycoplasma infections of cells in vitro.

Schimmelpfeng L, Langenberg U, Peters JH.

Mycoplasmal infections still cause severe problems in cell cultures, particularly
permanent lines, and although rapid detection is possible the only methods
proposed for the elimination of the mycoplasma are either laborious or
unsatisfactory. Treatment with antibiotics often leads to the development of
resistance and we have found it more successful to passage contaminated cells in 
nude (thymusless) mice although the cells cannot always be recovered. But when
the resulting subcutanous tumours can be collected, the cells are both free of
mycoplasma and accompanied by a large number of macrophages. Because nude mice
have no T cell-dependent immune response, it seemed possible that the macrophages
could be responsible for the elimination of the mycoplasma. The experiments
reported here support this hypothesis, and have led to a rapid and reproducible
technique for eliminating mycoplasma in vitro by a brief co-cultivation of
contaminated cells with mouse macrophages, in the presence of antibiotics.


PMID: 7393319  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Nature. 1980 Jun 26;285(5767):628-34.

Expression of a chicken chromosomal ovalbumin gene injected into frog oocyte
nuclei.

Wickens MP, Woo S, O'Malley BW, Gurdon JB.

Ovalbumin is synthesized by Xenopus oocytes injected with a plasmid containing
either the chicken chromosomal ovalbumin gene or a plasmid from which the 5'
region of the chromosomal gene has been deleted. However, oocytes injected with a
plasmid containing full-length ovalbumin cDNA do not synthesize ovalbumin,
despite the fact that at least as much stable, ovalbumin-specific RNA is
transcribed from the cDNA as from the chromosomal gene.


PMID: 7190224  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Nature. 1980 Jun 26;285(5767):674-6.

Isolation and mapping of a cloned ribosomal protein gene of Drosophila
melanogaster.

Vaslet CA, O'Connell P, Izquierdo M, Rosbash M.

Molecular cloning techniques are particularly well suited to the study of gene
organization in Drasophila melanogaster because recombinant DNA can easily be
localized in the genome by in situ hybridization to salivary gland polytene
chromosomes. We report here the isolation and preliminary characterization of a
recombinant phage, designated C25, containing a bona fide D. melanogaster
ribosomal protein gene. In situ hybridization demonstrates that this sequence
maps to region 99D on chromosome 3.


PMID: 6771656  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Nature. 1980 Jun 26;285(5767):662-4.

In vivo cyclic change in B-lymphocyte susceptibility to T-cell control.

Calderon RA, Thomas DB.

The humoral response to hapten-protein conjugates is an invaluable model for
dissecting the cellular elements of lymphocyte cooperation, and the Mitchison
secondary adoptive transfer system provides convincing evidence of cooperation
between hapten-specific B cells and carrier-specific T cells in the production of
anti-hapten antibody. Recently, attention has focused on the role of suppressor T
cells in the regulation of antibody production. Several workers have shown that
carrier-priming may, in some instances, suppress a subsequent hapten antibody
response, both in vivo and in vitro. This effect is attributed to a suppressor
T-cell population, generated during the initial phase of the immune response.
Gershon and co-workers have postulated that such suppressor T cells function in a
feedback regulatory loop to limit the duration of an immune response. We have
examined the suppressive effect of carrier immunization in a secondary
anti-hapten response in vivo and demonstrate a cyclic change in susceptibility of
memory B cells to T-help and suppression. Such variation presents a severe
restriction to any model of feedback control by suppressor T cells.


PMID: 6446684  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Nature. 1980 Jun 26;285(5767):673-4.

Electrochemical, photoelectrochemical, electrocatalytic and catalytic reduction
of redox proteins.

Cass AE, Eddowes MJ, Hill HA, Uosaki K, Hammond RC, Higgins IJ, Plotkin E.

Redox proteins catalyse the reactions of a wide variety of otherwise intractable 
substrates, such as dinitrogen, alkanes, arenes, terpenes and steroids. Two major
factors impede the utilization of these enzymes--the inefficient electron
transfer between the enzyme and electrode, and the properties often, but not
inevitably, associated with enzymes, such as instability, complexity, and
expense. We have now shown that the former can be overcome and that proteins can 
be coupled, via electrodes, to a number of energy sources; the latter is the
subject of much effort elsewhere. We demonstrated previously that certain redox
proteins can be reduced very efficiently electrochemically (Fig. 1a). Light and
hydrogen are the two other convenient energy sources that could be used for such 
reductions, and we now report the reduction of cytochrome c by these means.


PMID: 6248792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Nature. 1980 Jun 26;285(5767):670-3.

Presence of a low molecular weight endogenous inhibitor on 3H-muscimol binding in
synaptic membranes.

Yoneda Y, Kuriyama K.

The specific binding of 3H-muscimol to synaptic membrane preparations obtained
from the rate brain has been though to reflect the association of
gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), a potential candidate as an inhibitory
neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS), with its synaptic
receptors. Treatment of synaptic membranes with Triton X-100 significantly
increases the specific binding of 3H-muscimol. Several reports also indicate the 
presence of endogenous substances, such as GABA, acidic protein and
phosphatidylethanolamine, which inhibit Na-independent binding of 3H-GABA in the 
synaptic membranous fractions from the rat brain. We report here that in the
supernatant obtained from Triton-treated synaptic membranes there exists a new
type of endogenous inhibitor of 3H-muscimol binding which is apparently different
from the inhibitory substances described previously. The new inhibitor has a low 
molecular weight (MW) and probably originated from neurones rather than glial
cells. We have termed this endogenous inhibitor the GABA receptor binding
inhibitory factor (GRIF).


PMID: 6248791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Nature. 1980 Jun 26;285(5767):634-41.

Cleavage of pyrimidine dimers in specific DNA sequences by a pyrimidine dimer
DNA-glycosylase of M. luteus.

Haseltine WA, Gordon LK, Lindan CP, Grafstrom RH, Shaper NL, Grossman L.

Pyrimidine dimer formation in response to UV radiation is governed by the thymine
content of the potential dimer and the two flanking nucleotides. An enzymatic
activity can be purified from Micrococcus luteus that cleaves the N-glycosyl bond
between the 5' pyrimidine of a dimer and the corresponding sugar without rupture 
of a phosphodiester bond. We propose that strand scission at a dimer site by the 
M. luteus enzyme requires two activities, a pyrimidine dimer DNA-glycosylase and 
an apyrimidinic/apurinic endonuclease.


PMID: 6248789  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Nature. 1980 Jun 19;285(5766):584-6.

Histone exchange in chromatin of hydroxyurea-blocked Ehrlich ascites tumour
cells.

Russev G, Vassilev L, Tsanev R.

It is well established that DNA and histone synthesis are tightly coupled.
Nevertheless, these two processes can be partially uncoupled by drugs
specifically inhibiting protein or DNA synthesis, and also during
n-butyrate-induced differentiation of Friend cells. The fate of the histones
synthesized in the absence of DNA synthesis is unknown; they could be: (1)
degraded without joining chromatin; (2) deposited on chromatin as extra histones;
or (3) replace original chromatin histones. The only data concerning this problem
are a recent report supporting the second possibility. We present evidence here
in favour of the third possibility by showing that the histones synthesized in
the absence of DNA synthesis enter chromatin and become organized in nucleosomes.


PMID: 7402302  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Nature. 1980 Jun 19;285(5766):575-7.

Binding of adenovirus VA RNA to mRNA: a possible role in splicing?

Mathews MB.

Most, though not all, of the messenger RNAs of higher cells are composed of
transcripts from two or more non-contiguous DNA segments that are 'spliced'
together by mechanisms which are poorly understood. There has been recent
speculation that small RNA molecules may play a part in the splicing reaction,
acting as templates or adaptors to stabilize the appropriate conformation of a
precursor RNA. Adenovirus-2 codes for two low molecular weight RNAs, the
virus-associate (VA) RNAs I and II, major and minor species, respectively. These 
RNAs are about 160 nucleotides long and have both been sequenced. They originate 
from closely spaced genes which are transcribed by RNA polymerase III, but have
not been definitively associated with any function. We have shown previously that
a fraction of the VA RNA of infected cells is complexed with high molecular
weight RNA in a denaturation-sensitive fashion. Results presented here show that 
the VA RNAs bind to unfractionated late virus mRNA and to a cloned copy of a
single mRNA species, but not to corresponding cloned segments of viral genomic
DNA. It is suggested that VA RNA may act as a template in the splicing reaction.


PMID: 7402301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Nature. 1980 Jun 19;285(5766):573-5.

Control of X chromosome transcription by the maleless gene in Drosophila.

Belote JM, Lucchesi JC.

In Drosophila, a large group of structural genes exhibit coordinate regulation,
not because they function in a common developmental pathway but because they
happen to reside on the X chromosome. These genes are subjected to the regulatory
mechanism of dosage compensation which insures that their phenotypic products are
identical in the sex with one and in the sex with two X chromosomes. This
equilization of gene products is achieved by regulating the level of
transcription of both X chromosomes in females and of the single X chromosome in 
males. We report here that, reasoning that sex-specific lethal mutations may
represent lesions in the processes controlling the transcription of X-linked
loci, we sought and recovered several male-specific lethal mutations and noted
that they affect the levels of X-linked enzyme activities in crude extracts of
homozygous male larvae. Autoradiographic monitoring of RNA synthesis in larval
polytene chromosomes of males homozygous for one of these mutations, mlets,
reveals a significant reduction in the rate of X chromosome transcription.


PMID: 7402300  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Nature. 1980 Jun 19;285(5766):571-3.

(-)N-(chloroethyl)norapomorphine inhibits striatal dopamine function via
irreversible receptor binding.

Costall B, Fortune DH, Law SJ, Naylor RJ, Neumeyer JL, Nohria V.

beta-Haloalkylamine derivatives such as phenoxybenzamine are thought to
irreversibly inactivate noradrenaline receptors by a process involving the
formation of a reactive ethyleneimmonium cation which is followed by ring
scission yielding the reactive carbonium ion which can then react further with a 
nucleophilic centre located on the receptor. Further study of catecholamine
function has awaited the development of similar agents which can alkylate the
dopamine receptor. We report here on the structure (Fig. 1) and evaluation of one
agent with such potential, (--)N-(chloroethyl)norapomorphine [(--)NCA], and that 
this compound may be of significant value as a pharmacological and biochemical
probe of the dopamine receptor.


PMID: 7402299  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Nature. 1980 Jun 19;285(5766):579-81.

Yeast mitochondrial tRNATrp can recognize the nonsense codon UGA.

Martin NC, Pham HD, Underbrink-Lyon K, Miller Dl, Donelson JE.

DNA sequence analysis of mitochondrial genes that code for some mitochondrial
proteins has suggested that the opal terminator, UGA, is used as a sense codon in
mitochondria. The complete sequences of both the yeast and human genes coding for
cytochrome oxidase subunit II contain UGA codons in the reading frame. When the
protein sequences predicted by these DNA sequences are compared with the known
protein sequence of bovine mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase subunit II, there are
regions of homology, in which UGA codons correspond to tryptophan residues.
Therefore it has been suggested that UGA specifies tryptophan in the
mitochondrial code. We have isolated a yeast mitochondrial tRNATrp and used it to
locate the mitochondrial tRNATrp gene in pBR322-mitochondrial DNA recombinants.
DNA sequence analysis of this gene revealed that the mitochondrial tRNATrp
anticodon is 5'UCA3'. Because there is a U in the wobble position, this tRNA can 
recognize and insert tryptophan into a growing polypeptide chain in response to
the nonsense codon UGA.


PMID: 6995848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Nature. 1980 Jun 19;285(5766):589-90.

Is resistance of a muscle to fatigue controlled by its motoneurones?

Edgerton VR, Goslow GE Jr, Rasmussen SA, Spector SA.

The original experiment of Buller et al. and the many subsequent confirmatory
reports clearly show that the time-to-peak tension and many other speed-related
parameters of slow and fast muscle fibres are dictated by the motoneurone. It has
been concluded that the motoneurone exerts this control of the physiological and 
associated biochemical properties by the frequency at which it excites the muscle
fibre. However, no studies have been reported on the fatigue properties and the
associated biochemical characteristics after cross-reinnervation. Based on the
'size principle' of motoneurones, it would be reasonable to assume that a muscle 
fibre reinnervated by a small motoneurone would be active often and that this
would be manifested biochemically as an elevated oxidative capacity. Also, it has
been shown repeatedly that the mitochondrial content of a muscle fibre can be
modified by daily endurance type exercise. Thus, it would seem that the
motoneurone at least indirectly also controls the mitochondrial content of a
muscle fibre by controlling the degree of activity. We have now tested this
hypothesis using self- and cross-reinnervated muscles in cats. We found that
fast- and slow-twitch muscles retained their characteristic fatigue resistance
properties regardless of whether the nerve to which they had become connected had
originally innervated a fatigue-resistant or relatively fatiguable muscle.


PMID: 6447252  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Nature. 1980 Jun 19;285(5766):550-4.

Sequence of retrovirus provirus resembles that of bacterial transposable
elements.

Shimotohno K, Mizutani S, Temin HM.

The nucleotide sequences of the terminal regions of an infectious integrated
retrovirus cloned in the modified lambda phage cloning vector Charon 4A have been
elucidated. There is a 569-base pair direct repeat at both ends of the viral DNA.
The cell-virus junctions at each end consist of a 5-base pair direct repeat of
cell DNA next to a 3-base pair inverted repeat of viral DNA. This structure
resembles that of a transposable element and is consistent with the protovirus
hypothesis that retroviruses evolved from the cell genome.


PMID: 6250038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Nature. 1980 Jun 19;285(5766):547-9.

Human leukocyte and fibroblast interferons are structurally related.

Taniguchi T, Mantei N, Schwarzstein M, Nagata S, Muramatsu M, Weissmann C.

The coding sequences of the dDNAs of cloned human leukocyte interferon I and
human fibroblast interferon show homologies of 45% at the nucleotide and 29% at
the amino acid level. We conclude that the two genes were derived from a common
ancestor.


PMID: 6157095  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Nature. 1980 Jun 19;285(5766):542-7.

Isolation and structure of a human fibroblast interferon gene.

Derynck R, Content J, DeClercq E, Volckaert G, Tavernier J, Devos R, Fiers W.

Chimaeric plasmids containing double-stranded cDNA copies of mRNA induced in
human fibroblasts by poly I . C were screened by an RNA selection method. A
series of clones to which human fibroblast interferon mRNA selectively hybridized
was identified. From the nucleotide sequence of the gene, the complete amino acid
sequence of human fibroblast interferon was deduced. The protein is 166 amino
acids long and is preceded by a 21-amino acid signal sequence.


PMID: 6157094  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Nature. 1980 Jun 12;285(5765):510-1.

Lateral mobility of integral membrane proteins is increased in spherocytic
erythrocytes.

Sheetz MP, Schindler M, Koppel DE.

Alterations of glycoprotein distribution and lateral mobility in cell membranes
can provide transmembrane signals for several membrane-related phenomena. Control
of the transmembranous events has been ascribed to interaction between
submembranous protein matrices (or 'cytoskeletons') and membrane glycoproteins. A
consequence of such interaction would be differential inhibition of protein
lateral diffusion in biological membranes. Measurements of the lateral diffusion 
coefficients of membrane proteins, in fact, have generally yielded values much
less than were predicted for unhindered diffusion in a fluid bilayer. The mouse
spherocytic erythrocyte, which lacks the major components of the normal
erythrocyte membrane matrix (composed of spectrin, actin, bands 4.1 and 4.9 (ref.
16), in the nomenclature of Fairbanks et al.), provides a unique system for a
direct evaluation of the effect of the matrix on protein lateral mobility. After 
using a modification of the technique of fluorescence redistribution after
photobleaching (FRAP), we report here that membrane proteins diffuse about 50
times faster in spherocytic than in normal mouse erythrocytes.


PMID: 7402296  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Nature. 1980 Jun 12;285(5765):498-500.

Monokine-induced synthesis of serum amyloid A protein by hepatocytes.

Selinger MJ, McAdam KP, Kaplan MM, Sipe JD, Vogel SN, Rosenstreich DL.

Infection or inflammation triggers the rapid appearance in the blood of a group
of proteins known as acute phase reactants. Serum amyloid A protein (SAA) is an
acute phase protein which is believed to be the precursor for the secondary
amyloid fibril protein, known previously as amyloid of unknown origin, and now as
amyloid A protein (AA). The site of synthesis of SAA has been controversial, with
previous evidence suggesting that AA related proteins arise in liver, connective 
tissues, polymorphonuclear neutrophil leukocytes and spleen. However, in none of 
these systems could SAA synthesis be induced in vitro and the evidence rested on 
studies of tissues or cells arising from pre-stimulated animals. Our aim in the
present studies was to prove that the liver is capable of SAA production and to
identify the specific cell responsible for synthesis. The experiments demonstrate
that SAA is synthesized in the liver by hepatocytes. In addition, colchicine,
currently used for the treatment of amyloidosis, blocks the secretion of SAA from
the hepatocyte, as has been shown for another acute phase reactan, C-reactive
protein.


PMID: 7402294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Nature. 1980 Jun 12;285(5765):488-9.

Antibodies to a neural cell adhesion molecule disrupt histogenesis in cultured
chick retinae.

Buskirk DR, Thiery JP, Rutishauser U, Edelman GM.

Cell-surface proteins are believed to have important roles in cell-cell
interactions during brain development, particularly in such processes as cellular
adhesion, neurite outgrowth and synapse formation. The chick neural cell adhesion
molecule, CAM, is a cell-surface protein specific to the nervous system and has
been implicated in cell adhesion among cells and neurites of the developing
retina and brain. Previous studies have shown that F(ab') fragments of antibodies
directed against CAM inhibit the in vitro aggregation of cells obtained from
9-day embryonic chick retina. The specific antibody fragments also reduce the
diameter of neurite fascicles that grow out from cultured dorsal root ganglia,
apparently by blocking side-to-side adhesion between the neurites. In addition,
anti-CAM antibodies alter the appearance of histotypic patterns in retinal cell
aggregates maintained in culture for several days. We now demonstrate that the
antibodies can disrupt histogenesis of the developing retina in organ culture,
strengthening the notion that the cell-cell adhesion properties mediated by CAM
are involved in the normal development of histological layers in the chick
retina.


PMID: 7402293  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Nature. 1980 Jun 12;285(5765):506-8.

Is actin in eye lens a possible factor in visual accomodation?

Kibbelaar MA, Ramaekers FC, Ringens PJ, Selten-Versteegen AM, Poels LG, Jap PH,
van Rossum AL, Feltkamp TE, Bloemendal H.

Actin has been purified from varius non-muscle cells and characterized by its
molecular weight and ability to polymerize into filaments. Although the
occurrence of this protein has been postulated in the mammalian eye lens after
observation of actin-like filaments in the electron microscope, definite
(bio)chemical proof has been provided only recently. Amino acid analysis, peptide
mapping and affinity chromatography revealed the identity of lens actin with the 
corresponding protein in other tissues. As the filaments could be obtained by
co-isolation with highly purified lens plasma membranes, we were interested to
know how the actin-containing structures wre located in situ. In the experimental
approach reported here, the indirect immunofluorescence technique (IFT) was
applied to unfixed cryostat sections of lens tissue. The distribution of actin in
calf, rat and pigeon lens is described, and evidence from this for the role of
actin in visual accommodation discussed.


PMID: 6995847  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


421. Nature. 1980 Jun 12;285(5765):480-2.

Prostacyclin production by cultured smooth muscle cells from atherosclerotic
rabbit aorta.

Larrue J, Rigaud M, Daret D, Demond J, Durand J, Bricaud H.

Prostacyclin (PGI2) synthesis seems to be one of the major physiological
mechanisms involved in regulating platelet and vessel wall interactions. PGI2 is 
produced in large amounts by vascular endothelial cells, and vascular smooth
muscle cells (SMC) also produce significant quantities. The capacity of SMC to
produce PGI2, especially after endothelial injury, seems to be of importance. It 
is probably this type of situaton that is involved in the atherosclerotic
process: experimental atherosclerosis in rabbits has been associated with a
severe decrease in PGI, synthesis by arteries. Lipid peroxide accumulation within
the arterial wall or in the plasma may also be involved in this process. Using
arterial SMC in culture, we demonstrate here that, in comparison with healthy
cultured cells, cells originating from atherosclerotic aorta have a decreased
capacity to produce PGI2. The results were obtained using biological and
radiochemical techniques and were confirmed by GC-MS. They suggest a potential
role for PGI2 in inhibiting the atherosclerotic process.


PMID: 6995846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Nature. 1980 Jun 12;285(5765):492-4.

Is self tolerance H-2 restricted?

Matzinger P, Waterfield JD.

An individual's immune system must be capable of responding to a wide variety of 
antigens, but must not react against tissues of the individual itself. The
specificity of this 'self tolerance' is determined early in life and recent work 
has dealt with the mechanisms by which self tolerance is maintained. We report
here a study designed to determine whether products of the major
histocompatibility complex are involved in the induction of self tolerance; in
particular, whether the induction of self tolerance in the mouse is H-2
restricted. H-2 restriction refers to the finding that mouse T cells generally
recognize foreign antigens only when presented in association with the products
of H-2 alleles. We questioned whether T-cell precursors are made tolerant
directly by antigen alone, or whether the antigen must be associated in the cell 
membrane with an appropriate H-2 molecule. We find that T-cell tolerance to
'self' membrane components does not seem to be H-2 restricted and discuss the
possibility that this apparent lack of H-2 restriction is due to antigen
processing.


PMID: 6967564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Nature. 1980 Jun 12;285(5765):500-2.

Genetic heterogeneity in human neuraminidase deficiency.

Hoogeveen AT, Verheijen FW, d'Azzo A, Galjaard H.

There is a deficiency of human alpha-N-acetylneuraminidase in several inherited
diseases. In patients with mucolipidosis I (refs 1,2) and in adults with a
variant form with out bony abnormalities and mental retardation, both also
classified as sialidoses, it is the only deficient enzyme. In mucolipidosis II
('I-cell' disease) neuraminidase is one of many deficient lysosomal hydrolases
and a third manifestation combines deficiency of neuraminidase and
beta-galactosidase. We have investigated the genetic background of these various 
neuraminindase deficiencies by somatic cell hybridization and co-cultivation. The
principal conclusions from work on mutant fibroblasts, reported here, are that at
least three gene mutations are involved and that the combined
beta-galactosidase/neuraminidase deficiency is likely to be due to defective
post-translational modification of these enzymes.


PMID: 6772959  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Nature. 1980 Jun 12;285(5765):490-2.

Absence of M protein in a cell-associated subacute sclerosing panencephalitis
virus.

Lin FH, Thormar H.

Measles virus has been suggested to cause subacute sclerosing panencephalitis
(SSPE), a slow central nervous system disease of children. However, several
questions remain about the pathogenesis of SSPE. For example, it is not known
whether alteration of the measles virus genome has a role in the initiation and
persistence of the disease. Several studies have compared the RNA and protein
composition of wild-type (wt) and SSPE strains of measles virus in a search for
markers characteristic of the latter. All the studies used SSPE strains that had 
reverted to the budding, virion-producing form, similar to wt. We have shown,
however, that only cell-associated non-budding strains of SSPE virus cause an
SSPE-like persistent infection in young ferrets. Strong cell association and
cell-fusing activity were essential for the virulence of measles virus in the
brains of experimental animals and possibly humans. We have, therefore, compared 
the protein composition of virulent SSPE strains to that of the budding,
non-virulent SSPE and wt strains. We report here that the M protein was not
detectable in non-budding SSPE strains D.R., Biken and IP-3, and strain D.R.
contained very little H protein.


PMID: 6772958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Nature. 1980 Jun 12;285(5765):450-6.

Deletions in the constant region locus can account for switches in immunoglobulin
heavy chain expression.

Cory S, Jackson J, Adams JM.

Deletions spanning portions of the heavy chain constant region (CH) locus in
murine plasmacytomas are revealed by hybridization with cloned immunoglobulin DNA
molecules. The pattern of deletions suggests that a lymphocyte clone switches
expression of CH genes by successive deletions and that the probable CH gene
order is 5' mu-gamma 3-gamma 1-gamma 2b-gamma 2a-alpha 3'.


PMID: 6772957  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Nature. 1980 Jun 12;285(5765):441-6.

Cytoplasmic free calcium and amoeboid movement.

Cobbold PH.

Measurements with the Ca2+ -sensitive photoprotein aequorin show that locomotion 
in the amoeba Chaos carolinense occurs without changes in the aequorin signal and
that not more than 0.025% of the cytoplasm can exist at the micromolar threshold 
concentration for contraction. The results do not support the hypothesis that
cytoplasmic streaming is under the control of changes in the cytoplasmic free
Ca2+ concentration.


PMID: 6772956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Nature. 1980 Jun 12;285(5765):494-6.

Inhibition of suppressor T-cell development following deoxyguanosine
administration.

Dosch HM, Mansour A, Cohen A, Shore A, Gelfand EW.

The expression of immunodeficiency in patients with specific purine enzyme
defects indicates a crucial role of the purine salvage pathway in the acquisition
and expression of normal immune function. One current hypothesis links the
failure of normal lymphocyte development in these diseases to the accumulation of
deoxynucleotide triphosphates. In our studies of human in vitro IgM responses, we
observed that antigen-induced T-suppressor cell activity was abrogated in the
presence of micromolar concentrations of deoxyguanosine (dGuo). In contrast, more
than 1,000-fold higher resistance to dGuo was found for both noin-proliferative
T-helper cell activity and the differentiation and proliferation of the precursor
B lymphocytes for direct haemolytic plaque forming cells (PFC). To determine
whether these observations could have in vivo relevance, we monitored the
generation of murine T-suppressor cells, capable of abrogating a primary IgM
response. It was found that dGuo (but not guanosine) selectively inhibited the in
vivo development of T-suppressor cells.


PMID: 6447250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Nature. 1980 Jun 12;285(5765):508-10.

alpha-Actinin-containing branched microvilli isolated from an ascites
adenocarcinoma.

Carraway KL, Huggins JW, Cerra RF, Yeltman DR, Carraway CA.

Microvilli, slender projections approximately 0.1 micrometer in diameter which
occur on the surfaces of many cell types, are bounded by plasma membrane except
at the site of attachment to the cell body and contain microfilament bundle
cores. The presence of both microfilaments and plasma membrane suggests the use
of microbilli for investigations of membrane cytoskeleton interactions.
Immunofluorescence studies with anti-alpha-actinin have suggested that
alpha-actinin is concentrated at the tips of intestinal brush border microvilli
and might link actin microfilaments and the plasma membrane. However, this idea
was disputed by later immunofluorescence and electrophoresis studies. To
investigate the components and organization of microvilli from a less highly
differentiated cell type, we have used an ascites sub-line (MAT-Cl) of a rat
mammary tumour, the 13762 mammary adenocarcinoma, whose microvilli are high
branched. Becaused such unusual structures may provide an understanding of
cell-surface assemblies important in determining cell morphology, we have
developed a procedure for isolating the branched microvilli and have shown that
they contain significant quantities of alpha-actinin.


PMID: 6250037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Nature. 1980 Jun 12;285(5765):478-80.

Diurnal cycles in serotonin acetyltransferase activity and cyclic GMP content of 
cultured chick pineal glands.

Wainwright SD.

Levels of serotonin N-acetyltransferase (NAT: acetul CoA:arylamine
N-acetyltransferase; EC 2.1.1.5.) activity in the chick pineal gland exhibit a
marked diurnal variation in birds kept under a diurnal cycle of ilumination.
Activity begins to rise rapidly at the start of the dark phase of the cycle and
reaches maximum levels at mid-dark phase about 25-fold greater than the minimum
basal level at mid-light phase. Thereafter, the level of activity declines to the
basal level about the start of the light phase. This diurnal cycle in chick
pineal NAT activity found in vivo has recently been reproduced in vitro with
intact glands incubated in organ culture. The mechanism of the 'biological clock'
which regulates these variations in level of chick pineal NAT activity is
unknown. However, I now report that chick pineal glands cultured under a diurnal 
cycle of illumination exhibit a diurnal cycle in content of cyclic GMP which
roughly parallels the cycles in NAT activity. In contrast, there was no
correlation between variations in pineal content of cyclic AMP and in level of
NAT activity.


PMID: 6250035  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Nature. 1980 Jun 12;285(5765):456-63.

Expression of cloned beta-endorphin gene sequences by Escherichia coli.

Shine J, Fettes I, Lan NC, Roberts JL, Baxter JD.

DNA coding for the opiate peptide beta-endorphin has been cloned into bacterial
plasmids in such a way as to direct the synthesis of a hybrid
beta-galactosidase/beta-endorphin protein. This hybrid protein can readily be
cleaved in vitro to release biologically active beta-endorphin.


PMID: 6250034  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Nature. 1980 Jun 12;285(5765):485-8.

2'5' oligo(A) polymerase activity in serum of mice infected with EMC virus or
treated with interferon.

Krishnan I, Baglioni C.

Interferon-treated cells show an increase in two double-stranded RNA
(dsRNA)-dependent enzymatic activities involving an oligoadenylate polymerase and
a protein kinase (ref. 1 and refs therein). The polymerase converts ATP into a
series of oligonucleotides characterized by 2'5'-phosphodiester bonds, designated
2'5'-oligo(A) or 2-5A (ref. 1). These oligonucleotides activate an
endoribonuclease that degrades RNA in extracts of control and interferon-treated 
cells. These observations have been made in tissue culture cells and no
informatin is yet available on these enzymatic activities in animals with
elevated interferon levels. We report here on 2-5A synthesis in tissue
homogenates and serum of mice infected with encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV);
this virus induces interferon synthesis when injected intraperitoneally into
mice. Significant synthesis of 2-5A was detected in extracts of spleen and lungs,
but also, surprisingly, in the serum of these mice. Subsequent experiments showed
synthesis of 2-5A in serum of mice treated with the interferon inducer poly(I) x 
poly(C) (ref. 3) or with mouse fibroblast interferon.


PMID: 6157092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Nature. 1980 Jun 12;285(5765):446-50.

A monoclonal antibody for large-scale purification of human leukocyte interferon.

Secher DS, Burke DC.

A clone of hybrid myelomas (NK2), secreting a mouse monoclonal antibody to human 
leukocyte interferon, has been isolated. The antibody neutralizes the antiviral
activity of the interferon and, when covalently attached to a solid support and
used as an immunoadsorbent, allows interferon purification of up to 5,000-fold in
a single step.


PMID: 6157091  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Nature. 1980 Jun 12;285(5765):476-8.

Evidence for coexistence of dopamine and CCK in meso-limbic neurones.

Hökfelt T, Rehfeld JF, Skirboll L, Ivemark B, Goldstein M, Markey K.

Vanderhaeghen et al. reported the occurrence of gastrin-like immunoreactivity in 
the mammalian brain. Subsequent studies have revealed that this immunoreactivity 
corresponded mainly to the COOH-terminal octapeptide of cholecystokinin (CCK-8), 
which has a COOH-terminal pentapeptide identical to gastrin. Also, two peptides
resembling the NH- and the COOH-terminal tetrapeptide fragments of CCK-8 are
present in the central nervous system (CNS). Using COOH-terminal-specific
antisera raised to gastrin and/or CCK, the distribution of CCK neurones has been 
described with immunohistochemical techniques. Although high numbers of cells and
nerve terminals are found in cortical areas, the CCK systems are also present in 
most other parts of the brain and spinal cord. In the CNS, true gastrin
molecules, gastrin-17 and gastrin-34 have been located only in the
neurohypophysis, hypothalamus and occasionally in the medulla oblongata
(unpublished results). We describe here the occurrence of peptides in meso-limbic
dopamine neurones in the rat brain. Evidence has also been obtained that
mesencephalic dopamine neurones in the human brain contain similar peptides.


PMID: 6105617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Nature. 1980 Jun 5;285(5764):399-400.

Independent effects of the pineal and a bacterial pyrogen in behavioural
thermoregulation in lizards.

Firth BT, Ralph CL, Boardman TJ.

The pineal complex of lizards is comprised of an extracranial photoreceptive
structure known as the parietal eye, and an intracranial pineal organ which is
homologous to the pineal gland of birds and mammals. Studies have shown that
removing the parietal eye or severing the parietal nerve causes lizards to select
higher temperatures when allowed to thermoregulate behaviourally in thermal or
photothermal laboratory gradients. Although comparable studies involving removal 
of the lizard pineal organ have not previously been attempted, field data
indicate that pinealectomy may have an antagonistic effect to parietalectomy. We 
present evidence here which shows that (1) following pinealectomy, collared
lizards (Crotaphytus collaris) behaviourally select or prefer lower temperatures 
than their controls in thermal laboratory gradients, and (2) the effect of
surgical treatment is independent of the effects of a behavioural fever-inducing 
substance which elevates by a fixed amount the environmental temperatures
selected.


PMID: 7383158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Nature. 1980 Jun 5;285(5764):367-73.

Specific in vitro initiation of transcription on conalbumin and ovalbumin genes
and comparison with adenovirus-2 early and late genes.

Wasylyk B, Kédinger C, Corden J, Brison O, Chambon P.

Specific initiation of transcription of cloned conalbumin and ovalbumin genes has
been obtained in a cell-free system in the presence of purified calf thymus RNA
polymerase B. Comparison with the adenovirus-2 early (E1A) and major late genes
reveals marked variations in transcriptional efficiencies. Specific fragmentation
of the conalbumin gene DNA indicates that a short DNA segment 5' to the
initiation site is involved in specific transcription.


PMID: 7383157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Nature. 1980 Jun 5;285(5764):415-6.

A novel human pituitary peptide containing the gamma-MSH sequence.

Benjannet S, Seidah NG, Routhier R, Chrétien M.

It is well established that ACTH and beta-lipotropin (LPH) originate from a
common precursor molecule. Recently the complete complementary DNA sequence of
the bovine precursor was reported, and within the cryptic sequence of this
molecule is a third melanocyte stimulating hormone (MSH) region tentatively named
gamma-MSH. The signal peptide of this molecule consists of 26 amino acids in both
the rat and mouse. Pulse-chase experiments using both rat and mouse pituitary
cells, showed the gradual maturation of this common precursor to proceed via the 
initial cleavage of the carboxy terminal beta-LPH, followed by release of ACTH,
leaving an NH2-terminal extension of about 105 amino acids, which does not seem
to undergo appreciably further maturation. It is within the sequence of this
NH2-terminal extension that gamma-MSH is located. It is not yet clear what the
biological role of this molecule is and whether gamma-MSH itself is released.
Recently, it was shown that a synthetic 12 amino acid bovine gamma-MSH fragment
possessed very little melanophore-stimulating activity as compared to alphs-MSH. 
We report here the successful purification of the human NH2 terminal cryptic
peptide, its amino acid composition and present some of its tryptic fragments.
The data show that human and bovine gamma-MSH have indentical amino acid
composition.


PMID: 7189826  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Nature. 1980 Jun 5;285(5764):407-9.

5-Methoxypsoralen, an ingredient in several suntan preparations, has lethal,
mutagenic and clastogenic properties.

Ashwood-Smith MJ, Poulton GA, Barker M, Mildenberger M.

Many furocoumarins found in several species of plant are potent photosensitizing 
agents known to cause lethal and mutagenic effects in a wide range of organisms, 
from viruses to man. Their role in the aetiology of cancer is debatable, but work
has focused on the PUVA (psoralen-UVA) treatment of psoriasis with
8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP) and near UV radiation. Bergaptene (5-methoxypsoralen,
5-MOP) is a major constiutent of oil of bergamot, and might be expected to have
qualitatively similar photosensitizing properties to 8-MOP. Although 5-MOP is
widely used as a stimulus to melanin deposition in several suntan preparations
surprisingly little is known about its basic photobiology. We report here that
5-MOP has the expected properties of other biologically active furocoumarins.
These properties include lethal and mutagenic photosensitization of bacteria,
'dark' induced frameshift mutagenesis in bacteria, and lethal and clastogenic
effects on mammalian cells in tissue culture.


PMID: 6991953  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Nature. 1980 Jun 5;285(5764):378-82.

Analysis and prediction of protein beta-sheet structures by a combinatorial
approach.

Cohen FE, Sternberg MJ, Taylor WR.

Analysis of beta-sheet sandwiches (for example immunoglobulin domains) suggests
an algorithm that successfully predicts the tertiary fold of these proteins from 
their sequence and secondary structure. We propose tertiary structures for beta
2-microglobulin and an HLA-B7 antigen fragment. Topological rules are presented
that markedly reduce the number of folds for proteins in which a-helices pack
against a parallel beta-sheet.


PMID: 6991952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Nature. 1980 Jun 5;285(5764):417-8.

Isolation of two novel candidate hormones using a chemical method for finding
naturally occurring polypeptides.

Tatemoto K, Mutt V.

Naturally occurring peptides with biological actions have in most cases been
detected by observing their biological activities in crude extracts and their
isolation has been followed using bioassays. As a complement to the classical
biological detection systems, we have proposed a chemical detection system based 
on fragmentation of peptides in tissue extracts followed by identification of
certain of these peptide fragments having distinct chemical features. One such
chemical feature is the C-terminal amide structure which is characteristic of
many biologically active peptides. We have devised a chemical assay method for
peptides having such a structure and have found several previously unknown
peptide amides in procine upper small intestinal tissues. We report here the
isolation and characterization of two of them, designated PHI and PYY. PHI is
related to secretin, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP, glucagon and gastric
inhibitory polypeptide (GIP); PYY is related to the pancreatic polypeptide and to
neurotensin. Both peptides exhibit biological activities and appear to be present
not only in the intestine but also in brain.


PMID: 6892950  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Nature. 1980 Jun 5;285(5764):405-7.

K562 human leukaemic cells express fetal type (i) antigen on different
glycoproteins from circulating erythrocytes.

Fukuda M.

During the ontogenic change from fetal to adult human erythrocytes, as well as
fetal haemoglobin being replaced by adult haemoglobin, the cell-surface antigen i
is converted to I (ref. 1). Recently it has been shown that this antigenic change
is the conversion of the linear repeating Gal beta 1 leads to 4GlcNac beta 1
leads to 3Gal structure to branched Gal beta 1 leads to 4GlcNac beta 1 leads to
3(Gal beta 1 leads to 4GlcNac beta 1 leads to 6)Gal structure. We have shown that
cell-surface labelling followed by endo-beta-galactosidase digestion can
distinguish these two forms on the cell surface, and that band 3 and band 4.5 are
the major carriers for these antigens on mature erythrocytes. Human leukaemic
cell line K562, originally isolated from a patient at blast crisis of chronic
myelocytic leukaemia, has recently been shown to synthesize glycophorin A, and to
be capable of synthesizing haemoglobin upon induction. I demonstrate here that
K562 cells express the fetal type (i) antigen on distinctly different
glycoproteins from those of erythrocytes, by the use of cell-surface labelling
followed by endo-beta-galactosidase digestion or followed by immunoprecipitation 
with specific antibodies.


PMID: 6770273  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Nature. 1980 Jun 5;285(5764):403-5.

A monoclonal antibody specific for diploid epithelial cells in Drosophila.

Brower DL, Smith RJ, Wilcox M.

Results from various experiments suggest that the cell surface has an important
role in development. However, there is relatively little information on the
specific surface molecules involved in developmental processes. In an effort to
characterize cell-surface components that may be involved in Drosophila
development, we have been making monoclonal antibodies against D. melanogaster
imaginal disks. The holometabolous insects are unusual in that scattered among
the larval tissues are groups of undifferentiated imaginal cells which, during
metamorphosis, will form most of the adult insect. The imaginal disks, which we
use as an immunogen, are hollow sacs of cells; each disk will form a specific
part of the adult cuticle. Other imaginal cells are found as nests or rings in
various larval organs. We describe here results indicating that one of the clones
we have isolated, DA.1B6, makes an antibody against an antigen which, in larvae, 
is generally restricted to the undifferentiated sheets of imaginal epithelial
cells. This and other results indicate that the antigen is specific for the
diploid epithelia in Drosophila.


PMID: 6770272  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Nature. 1980 Jun 5;285(5764):412-5.

Genetic retrieval of viral genome sequences from herpes simplex virus transformed
cells.

Park M, Lonsdale DM, Timbury MC, Subak-Sharpe JH, Macnab JC.

Oncogenic transformation of cultured cells by inactivated herpes simplex virus
(HSV) types 1 and 2 has been demonstrated. Expression of HSV information in these
transformed cells has been shown by immunofluorescence studies, detection of HSV 
neutralizing antibody in sera from tumour-bearing animals and by hybridization of
HSV-specific RNA. Molecular hybridization studies of DNA from HSV-2 transformed
hamster cells have detected up to 40% of the HSV genome present in several
copies. Complementation of three HSV-2 temperature-sensitive mutants when
superinfecting the RE1 rat embryo cell line (transformed by the HSV-2
temperature-sensitive mutant ts1) suggests that resident viral genes can be
expressed. Brown et al. used a similar approach to detect HSV information latent 
in human ganglia. We report here retrieval of intertypic HSV recombinants from
HSV transformed cells after superinfection with ts mutants of the alternative
serotype of HSV. Restriction enzyme analysis which clearly differentiates between
HSV-1 and HSV-2 DNA has demonstrated the isolation of recombinants spanning the
genome and of virus indistinguishable from the original transforming virus.


PMID: 6247659  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Nature. 1980 Jun 5;285(5764):409-12.

Selective disruption of displacement behaviour by lesions of the mesolimbic
dopamine system.

Robbins TW, Koob GF.

In the wild, organisms generally allocate their time among many behavioural
tendencies in response to both current and anticipated motivational requirements.
However, activities that are apparently 'irrelevant' often intrude, either during
conflict between these behavioural tendencies, or when a strong tendency is
thwarted. These 'irrelevant' activities are called displacement behaviours and
are widely documented in the ethological literature. We report here that an
experimental analogue of displacement behaviour in the rat depends upon the
integrity of the mesolimbic dopaminergic projection to the nucleus accumbens
septi, olfactory tubercle and associated structures of the forebrain.


PMID: 6104303  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Nature. 1980 Jun 5;285(5764):416-7.

Pituitary immunoreactive gamma-melanotropins are glycosylated oligopeptides.

Shibasaki T, Ling N, Guillemin R.

Nakanishi et al. have recently characterised the complete sequence of the mRNA
isolated from the intermediate lobe of bovine pituitary which codes for the
31,000 molecular weight (31K) precursor protein of corticotropin/beta-lipotropin 
(ACTH/beta-LPH). The corresponding amino acid sequence translated from this mRNA 
revealed in the cryptic region of the precursor protein a fragment sharing a
common amino acid sequence with the alpha- beta-melanotropins (alpha-MSH,
beta-MSH) and thus named gamma-MSH. To study whether this gamma-MSH fragment is
also processed and released as a biologically active substance and to ascertain
its location in the pituitary and possibly in the brain, we have raised
antibodies to the synthetic replicate of gamma 3-MSH (ref. 2). We report here the
detection of at least two gamma-MSH-like peptides in the pituitary using these
antibodies in a radioimmunoassay (RLA) and, furthermore, evidence that these two 
peptides are glycosylated.


PMID: 6101229  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Nature. 1980 May 29;285(5763):340-1.

Evidence for mutation in an I-A gene.

Hansen TH, Melvold RW, Arn JS, Sachs DH.

Mutant mouse strains are important tools for immunogenetic studies of the
regulation, structure and function of major histocompatibility (H-2) antigens1-3.
Several inbred strains have been established which carry H-2-linked mutations
that cause changes in cell surface antigens as recognized by cytotoxic T cells
and sometimes antibodies. Using intra-H-2 recombinant haplotypes in skin graft
complementation studies, lesions in several of these mutant strains have been
genetically mapped to genes encoded in the K- or D-end of the H-2 complex3. More 
precise mapping has often not been possible as many of the available mutant
strains possessed lesions in the K-end of the H-2b haplotype and a recombinant
separating the Kb and I-Ab regions was not previously available. The genetic
locations of the lesions in some of these mutant strains could therefore only be 
inferred when a serological and/or structural alteration was detected (see refs
1, 2). We describe here the use of a newly established recombinant strain,
B10.MBR (ref. 4), for skin graft complementation studies to map K-end mutations. 
These studies provide the first genetic evidence that the B6.C-H-2bm12 mutation
involves an I-Ab gene and also confirm that the lesions in two other mutants can 
be mapped to a gene in the Kb region.


PMID: 7374785  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Nature. 1980 May 29;285(5763):326-9.

Effects of methylated xanthines on mammalian cells treated with bifunctional
alkylating agents.

Murnane JP, Byfield JE, Ward JF, Calabro-Jones P.

Caffeine has been previously reported to enhance the lethal potential of many
DNA-damaging agents in rodent cells1-5. This effect has most commonly been
ascribed to the binding of caffeine to single-stranded DNA6, and the resulting
inhibition of post-replication repair7-10, which is associated with the synthesis
of abnormally small nascent DNA fragments7, 11-13. However, certain aspects of
this theory remain unclear:(1) why does the addition of caffeine to damaged cells
elevate the level of DNA synthesis when it supposedly blocks post-replication
repair10,14, and (2) as pointed out by Cleaver15, why does caffeine continue to
exert its synergistic lethal effects until completion of the S phase16, 17, even 
though the size of newly synthesized DNA seems normal much earlier18-20? The
present studies with nitrogen mustard (HN2) fail to demonstrate any effect of
non-lethal concentrations of methylated xanthines (MXs) on removal of DNA damage 
or post-replication repair in conditions producing synergistic lethal effects. We
demonstrate an influence by MXs on initiation of DNA synthesis in damaged
replicons, and propose that this effect is primarily responsible for the
synergistic lethal properties of these drugs.


PMID: 7374784  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Nature. 1980 May 29;285(5763):294-300.

Different species of messenger RNA encode receptor and secretory IgM mu chains
differing at their carboxy termini.

Singer PA, Singer HH, Williamson AR.

Biosynthetic studies in the presence of an inhibitor of glycosylation indicate
that individual human lymphoma-derived cell lines can synthesize both membrne
receptor and presumptive secretory forms of IgM mu chains. The receptor form has 
a larger polypeptide chain than the secretory form and possesses a different
C-terminus, but similar N-terminus, consistent with the presence of a C-terminal 
hydrophobic "tail" for integral membrane binding. Messenger RNA isolated from
these cells directs the synthesis of both forms of mu chains in a wheat germ
translation system, indicating the presence of independent mRNAs for each form.
It is proposed that the synthetic pathways for receptor and secretory IgM diverge
at the post-transcriptional level, possibly by differential RNA splicing to give 
mRNA molecules with or without a translatable "tail" segment.


PMID: 6769053  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Nature. 1980 May 29;285(5763):338-9.

Red cell sodium fluxes catalysed by the sodium pump in the absence of K+ and ADP.

Lee KH, Blostein R.

In the absence of extracellular Na+ or K+, the sodium pump catalyses an
ouabain-sensitive "uncoupled" Na+ efflux1-4. With red cell ghosts Glynn and
Karlish5 showed that this Na+ efflux is accompanied by ATP hydrolysis and that
extracellular sodium ions, at low concentrations, inhibit this efflux as well as 
the associated ATP hydrolysis. At higher concentrations, extracellular sodium
ions restore the hydrolysis of ATP3,6 but it is not known whether there is an
associated increase in Na+ efflux and, perhaps, an influx. To answer this
question we have used inside-out red cell membrane vesicles which are specially
suitable for controlling the composition of the medium at the two membrane
surfaces while measuring 22Na+ fluxes in both directions. We report here that the
sodium pump can operate in a mode in which influx and efflux of sodium are
associated with ATP hydrolysis. This mode is different from the Na-Na exchange
described by Garrahan and Glynn7, and Glynn and Hoffman8, which requires ADP as
well as ATP9 and is probably associated with ADP-ATP exchage rather than ATP
hydrolysis10,11.


PMID: 6246454  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Nature. 1980 May 29;285(5763):300-5.

Fidelity of DNA replication catalysed in vitro on a natural DNA template by the
T4 bacteriophage multi-enzyme complex.

Hibner U, Alberts BM.

More than 50 copies of a phi X174 DNA template can be made in 60 min in an in
vitro DNA replication system consisting of seven purfied replication proteins
isolated from T4 bacteriophage-infected cells. By transfecting with the DNA
products and assaying for the reversion of specific amber mutants, the high
degree of base-pairing fidelity in this system is revealed; the in vitro system
is also shown to respond to the mutagenic effect of Mn2+ and to display strong
base-pair context effects on fidelity, as expected from in vivo studies.


PMID: 6246450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Nature. 1980 May 22;285(5762):267-8.

Repeated folding pattern in copper-zinc superoxide dismutase.

McLachlan AD.

Some globular proteins contain repeated structural patterns within the same
polypeptide chain. Several enzymes have a pseudo-symmetric two-lobed
architecture: a pair of connected but well separated domains with very similar
structures are grouped round an approximate 2-fold symmetry axis close to the
active centre. On a smaller scale the same motif may appear inside a single
protein domain: the polypeptide chain folds into two successive topologically
similar subdomains which interlock symmetrically and form a compact globule. In
such a domain the two halves come into close contact round the dyad axis; as if
the structural integrity of the domain depended on the interactions between its
halves, while one separated subdomain could not exist as an independent folding
unit. Many of these paired structures seem to have evolved from dimeric
precursors by tandem gene duplication. They contain repeated amino acid sequences
or precisely repeated structural elements in which equivalent sets of
alpha-carbon atoms can be superimposed with root mean square deviations of the
order of 1-2 A. Here it is shown that copper-zinc superoxide dismutase contains
two paired subdomains, and the significance of the repeated folding pattern is
discussed.


PMID: 7374781  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Nature. 1980 May 22;285(5762):265-7.

Decreased rate of DNA-chain growth in human basal cell carcinoma.

Heenen M, Galand P.

The DNA synthetic (S) phase of cell division is about twice as long in human
basal cell carcinoma (BCC) as the normal epidermis and several non-malignant skin
diseases. A similar increase in S phase duration seems to occur in tumours of the
human oesophagus, larynx and recto-colon. At the molecular level, the overall
rate of replication in a nucleus is determined by two factors--the frequency of
initiation of replication and the rate of replication fork progression along the 
units of replication (for review see refs 7,8). Here we present evidence (based
on DNA fibre autoradiography) that the observed increase in S phase duration may 
be due to a marked reduction in the rate of DNA replication along replication
units, the density of simultaneously operating replication units remaining
unchanged. This indicates an alteration in some biological component(s) of DNA
synthesis in BCC that is of potential interest for characterizing the malignant
transformation of the epidermal cell and that may perhaps be exploited
therapeutically.


PMID: 7374780  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Nature. 1980 May 22;285(5762):254-7.

Glucocorticoids increase osteoblast-like bone cell response to 1,25(OH)2D3.

Wong GL, Lukert BP, Adams JS.

Recent reports indicate that some hormones may regulate the binding of, and
subsequent response to, other hormones by their target tissue. The adrenal
glucocorticoids are prominent among these modulating hormones. Glucocorticoids
have been shown to enhance bone cell sensitivity to parathyroid hormone (PTH) in 
vitro and this in turn has permitted PTH-induced effects to be measured at
physiological doses of PTH for the first time in isolated osteoblast-like (OB)
and osteoclast-like (OC) cells. It is unknown whether these findings represent a 
specific interaction between glucocorticoids and PTH or indicate a general role
for glucocorticoids in the development and/or maintenance of bone cell
differentiation, of which hormonal responsiveness would be one expression. In the
event of a general glucocorticoid effect on cell differentiation, increased
responsiveness to other bone resorbing hormones should also be observed. We have 
therefore examined whether glucocorticoids enhance the sensivity of bone cells to
a steroid hormone, 1,25 dihydroxycholecalciferol (1,25(OH)2,D3), and we report
here that they do.


PMID: 7374779  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Nature. 1980 May 22;285(5762):240-1.

Dopaminergic activation of reticulata neurones in the substantia nigra.

Ruffieux A, Schultz W.

Dendritic release of dopamine (DA) in substantia nigra (SN) is well established
in various experimental situations. Morphological substrates for DA storage exist
in dendrites, as do dendro-dendritic and dendro-axonic contacts. DA receptors in 
SN are located on both cells and striato-nigral terminals. DA is thought to
regulate the activity of neighbouring dopaminergic neurones through its dendritic
release by a local feedback mechanism. However, dendrites of DA neurones also
ramify close to the neuropil of non-dopaminergic reticulata neurones in SN. The
question has arisen whether dendritically release DA might also influence these
neurones which, to a large extent, project to ventromedial thalamus (VM) and
superior colliculus. A necessary condition would be that they are sensitive to
DA. In the experiments reported here this was found to be the case--a
considerable proportion of nigrothalamic neurones were activated by
iontophoretically applied DA. This contrasts with its known depressant effect on 
pars compacta DA neurones which we confirmed.


PMID: 7374778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Nature. 1980 May 22;285(5762):233-5.

Partial denervation in inactive muscle effects innervated and denervated fibres
equally.

Cangiano A, Lutzemberger L.

Possible causal factors of denervation-induced changes in muscle include
inactivity, products of nerve degeneration and lack of a nerve-borne trophic
agent. We now show that if the innervated fibres in a partially denervated rat
muscle are rendered inactive, they undergo a reaction as intense as that of the
denervated fibres. This provides further support for the view that the effects of
denervation on the extrajunctional muscle membrane result from a combination of
muscle inactivity and of nerve breakdown products acting diffusely throughout the
muscle.


PMID: 7374777  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Nature. 1980 May 22;285(5762):232-3.

Brain noradrenaline depletion prevents ECS-induced enhancement of serotonin- and 
dopamine-mediated behaviour.

Green AR, Deakin JF.

When rats are given a series of electroconvulsive shocks (ECSs) over several
days, they display enhanced behavioural responses to both serotonin- and
dopamine-receptor agonists. Because these changes are seen when the ECS is given 
in ways closely mimicking the clinical administration of electroconvulsive
therapy (ECT), it has been suggested that the changes in postsynaptic monoamine
function may be involved in the antidepressant mechanisms of ECT. Ligand-binding 
studies have excluded the possibility that ECS alters the characteristics of
either the serotonin or dopamine receptor; ECS may therefore be acting on
neuronal systems which modulate monoamine neurotransmission. As repeated ECS has 
recently been reported to decrease both noradrenaline (NA)-sensitive adenylate
cyclase and beta-adrenoreceptor binding, we have examined here whether changes in
NA function are related to the effects of ECS on the serotonin- and
dopamine-mediated behaviours. We demonstrate that although selective depletion of
NA does not alter the drug-induced serotonin- and dopamine-mediated responses, it
abolishes the ECS-induced enhancement of these behaviours.


PMID: 7374776  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Nature. 1980 May 22;285(5762):231-2.

Changes of hippocampal Met-enkephalin content after recurrent motor seizures.

Hong JS, Wood PL, Gillin JC, Yang HY, Costa E.

Kainic acid (KA), a powerful neurotoxic analogue of glutamate, has been
extensively used as a tool for selectively lesioning neuronal cell bodies;
however, axons or nerve terminals are spared from damage in the area injected
with kainic acid. Injections of this neurotoxin in various brain regions were
successfully used to locate cell bodies of neurones containing substance P,
enkephalin and other putative neurotransmitters. While attempting to locate the
cell bodies of the enkephalin containing neurones present in hippocampus using KA
injections, we found that a few days after intracerebral injections of KA a
drastic increase in the Met-enkephalin (ME) content of hippocampus occurs. We now
describe the delayed increase in hippocampal ME content elicited by intracerebral
KA injections and examine the possible mechanism that is operative in causing
this increase. Moreover, we provide some evidence suggesting that the increase in
ME content elicited by intracerebral injections of KA may be related to the
recurrent motor seizures elicited by intracerebral injections of KA.


PMID: 7374775  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Nature. 1980 May 22;285(5762):225-7.

Kin preference in infant Macaca nemestrina.

Wu HM, Holmes WG, Medina SR, Sackett GP.

The ability to recoginize conspecifics is a prerequisite for many types of social
behaviour, including, for example, parent-offspring relation, mate selection and 
recognition, territorial defence and dominance coalitions. This ability is of
special importance to Hamilton's kin selection hypothesis, which predicts that an
individual's behaviour towards a conspecific will depend on the degree of genetic
relatedness between them. Although recognition depends on previous experience
between individuals in some species, this does not precluded the possibility that
recognition could occur in its absence. For example, juveniles who disperse
before nonlittermate siblings are born or adult males who do not participate in
rearing their young might benefit from recognition abilities that are independent
of prior association between the individuals. Here we show that young pigtail
macaques prefer to interact with a related over an unrelated monkey in a
laboratory test. Because subjects were separated from their dams at birth and
reared apart from all other relatives, results suggest that kin recognition can
occur in the absence of prior association with relatives.


PMID: 7374772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Nature. 1980 May 22;285(5762):261-3.

Lateral diffusion of lipopolysaccharide in the outer membrane of Salmonella
typhimurium.

Schindler M, Osborn MJ, Koppel DE.

Gram-negative enteric bacteria are enveloped by two membrane systems. The inner
or cytoplasmic membrane is responsible for the major metabolic functions
including biosynthetic activities, while the major known functions of the outer
membrane are primarily physical: it contains receptors for bacteriophages and
bacteriocins; it contributes to the maintenance of cell shape; and it controls
access of nutrient solutes and agents such as antibiotics and detergents to the
cytoplasmic membrane. Several investigations have indicated that mobility of
membrane components, particularly lipopolysaccharide, is essential for biogenesis
of the outer membrane, and is a primary event in phage infection. To define more 
accurately the fluid dynamic properties of the outer membrane as related to
function, we have now developed the capability to measure lateral diffusion
coefficients in vivo of rhodaminated G30 lipopolysaccharide fused into Salmonella
typhimurium G30A filamentous bacteria. The method used extends the FRAP procedure
(fluorescence redistribution after photobleaching) to bacteria and the results
demonstrate rapid diffusion of lipopolysaccharide (D = 2.0 +/- 0.9 x 10(-10)
cm2s-1) over micrometre distances.


PMID: 6990276  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Nature. 1980 May 22;285(5762):250-2.

Epidermal growth factor requirement for development of cultured mammary gland.

Tonelli QJ, Sorof S.

The mouse mammary gland in serum-free whole organ culture can be manipulated
hormonally to undergo one complete physiological cycle consisting of
lobuloalveolar development, functional differentiation and regression, mimicking 
processes that occur in vivo. A second cycle has not previously been achieved in 
vitro. The present study has identified a specific requirement for epidermal
growth factor (EGF) in the morphological development of mammary lobuloalveoli,
allowing two complete cycles of development and regression in culture.


PMID: 6966378  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Nature. 1980 May 22;285(5762):252-4.

Monkey pituitary oestrogen receptors and the biphasic action of oestradiol on
gonadotropin secretion.

Attardi B, Hotchkiss J, Knobil E.

Evidence has been advanced in favour of the hypothesis that, in the rhesus
monkey, the negative feedback as well as the stimulatory or so-called "positive
feedback" action of oestrogen on gonadotropin secretion is at the level of the
pituitary gland. The cellular basis for this biphasic action of oestrogen on the 
gonadotroph is not understood. In oestrogen target tissues the elicitation of
physiological responses is generally associated with the binding of oestrogen to 
cytoplasmic receptor proteins which are subsequently translocated to the nucleus.
Such receptors have been characterized in the anterior pituitary of the rat. In
the ovariectomized rhesus monkey refused with 3H-oestradiol, autoradiography and 
parallel cell fractionation have demonstrated the accumulation of 3H-oestradiol
by the nuclei of a significant number of pituitary cells. We describe here some
of the properties of these putative oestrogen receptors in the anterior pituitary
of the monkey and observe that their distribution between cytoplasmic and nuclear
compartments is constant in response to sustained elevations in serum oestrogen
concentration which produce a biphasic pattern of circulating gonadotropins.


PMID: 6769051  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Nature. 1980 May 22;285(5762):246-7.

Inhibin is absent from azoospermic semen of infertile men.

Scott RS, Burger HG.

There is ample evidence that the secretion of follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) 
by the pituitary gland is regulated by a nonsteroidal hormone of gonadal origin, 
termed inhibin. In several species, testicular extracts, gonadal lymph and
seminal plasma have been shown to contain proteins which inhibit FSH release;
lack of suitable assays for inhibin has, however, prevented clear definition of
its physiological significance. Men whose tests show the histological changes of 
germinal cell failure usually have raised FSH levels in the blood, but may have
normal levels of luteinizing hormone (LH) and testosterone. Such patients would
thus be predicted to show reduced inhibin production. To test this, we have
measured the FSH inhibitory activity of seminal plasma from azoospermic subjects 
with raised plasma FSH levels. We report here our confirmation of diminished
inhibin levels in seminal plasma of these patients, thus providing convincing
support for its physiological role as a modulator of FSH production in man.


PMID: 6769050  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Nature. 1980 May 22;285(5762):259-61.

Murine leukaemogenesis: monoclonal antibodies to T-cell determinants arrest
T-lymphoma cell proliferation.

McGrath MS, Pillemer E, Weissman IL.

We have proposed a receptor-mediated leukaemogenesis hypothesis wherein T
lymphomas would be clones of T cells bearing mitogen-linked surface receptors
specific for the envelope determinants of the inducing MuLV. A prediction of the 
hypothesis is that T-lymphoma proliferation is dependent on continued
presentation of MuLV envelope determinants to these cell-surface receptors, and
that substances which interfere with receptor-virus interactions should inhibit
T-lymphoma proliferation. Rat monoclonal antibodies were raised to the AKR mouse 
T lymphoma KKT-2, and these antibodies were screened independently for blockade
of virus-binding and for cytostatic activity on KKT-2 cells. We report here that 
those monoclonal antibodies which block virus binding inhibit growth of KKT-2
cells in vitro, whereas monoclonal antibodies which bind to these cells but do
not block virus binding are not cytostatic. Three of the four cytostatic
antibodies detect determinants on the Thy-1 molecule, while none of the other
(noncytostatic) antibodies detect Thy-1. Antibody inhibition of KKT-2 cell growth
is precluded by saturation of KKT-2 virus receptors with the inducing leukaemia
virus.


PMID: 6246448  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Nature. 1980 May 22;285(5762):229-30.

alpha 2-Adrenergic receptors appear in rat salivary glands after reserpine
treatment.

Bylund DB, Martinez JR.

The regulation of central and peripheral adrenergic receptors by various
chemical, physiological, pharmacological and pathological stimuli has been the
subject of intense study. For example, drug treatments can produce relatively
small changes in the density of existing receptor binding sites in a variety of
tissues. The alpha-adrenergic receptors in rat salivary gland tissue have been
studied using radioligand receptor binding techniques. We have recently
identified and characterised alpha 1-adrenergic receptors in the rat
submandibular gland, but surprisingly, alpha 2-adrenergic receptor binding was
not detectable. We now report that a single treatment of reserpine results in the
appearance of alpha 2-adrenergic binding sites within 12 h. Continued treatment
with the drug produces further increases in the number of alpha 2-adrenergic
receptors, such that after 7 days the levels of alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenergic
receptors are similar. This is the first example of a drug treatment resulting in
the appearance of a receptor type which was not previously detectable.


PMID: 6246446  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Nature. 1980 May 22;285(5762):207-10.

Isolation of the chicken thymidine kinase gene by plasmid rescue.

Perucho M, Hanahan D, Lipsich L, Wigler M.

We have used the bacterial plasmid pBR322 as a vehicle to isolate genes coding
for selectable markers from higher eukaryotes. In this way, we have obtained the 
chicken thymidine kinase (tk) gene as a 2.2-kilobase EcoRI/HindIII insert in
BR322. The cloned gene transforms tk- animal cells with an efficiency equal to
that of the cloned herpes simplex virus-1 tk gene.


PMID: 6246445  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Nature. 1980 May 22;285(5762):248-50.

Renin-like effects of NGF evaluated using renin-angiotensin antagonists.

Avrith DB, Lewis ME, Fitzsimons JT.

Intracranial injection of angiotensin II (AII) or activation of the cerebral
isorenin-angiotensin system with intracranial renin causes an immediate thirst
and a delayed sodium appetite in the rat. Nerve growth factor (NGF), a
polypeptide trophic factor for peripheral sympathetic and sensory neurones, has
also been reported to be a potent stimulus to thirst and sodium appetite when
injected into the brain of the rat. Lewis et al. drew attention to the marked
similarity between the effects of 2.5S NGF and renin on thirst and sodium
appetite and suggested that the NGF responses were mediated by the cerebral
isorenin-angiotensin system. We report here that NGF-induced thirst and sodium
appetite, as well as increased blood pressure and increase ornithine
decarboxylase activity in the brain and liver, depend on the formation of AII
(see also ref. 6).


PMID: 6154896  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Nature. 1980 May 22;285(5762):243-6.

Dopaminergic stimulation of prolactin release.

Denef C, Manet D, Dewals R.

Prolactin (PRL) secretion from anterior pituitary is believed to be under tonic
inhibitory control of dopamine (DA) released from the tubero-infundibular
dopaminergic neurones into the hypophysial portal blood. Inhibition of PRL
release by DA seems to be mediated by sereospecific DA receptors located in PRL
cells. Apomorphine and various ergot alkaloids such as bromocryptine mimic the
inhibitory effect of DA both in vivo and in vitro, presumably by a direct agonist
action on these 'inhibitory' receptors. We now report that PRL secretion in
primary cultures of rat pituitary cells can be stimulated by DA when
concentrations a thousand times lower than those required for inhibition are
used. Secretion rates above basal release can also be induced by apomorphine and 
bromocryptine when the 'inhibitory' receptors are blocked with certain DA
receptor antagonists.


PMID: 6154895  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Nature. 1980 May 15;285(5761):169-71.

Tension generation by actomyosin thread from a non-muscle system.

Matsumura F, Yoshimoto Y, Kamiya N.

A suitable motility model reconstituted from non-muscle contractile proteins
should offer a powerful tool for analysing the molecular events in cell motility.
Actomyosin thread has been thought to be such a model. As far as non-muscle
motile systems are concerned, however, only a very limited number of experiments 
have been done in this direction. No direct measurement of the tension produced
by non-muscular actomyosin thread has been reported in spite of its importance
for quantitative studies. We now report that a segment of actomyosin thread of
Physarum polycephalum can generate a considerable amount of tension, which is a
function of the micromolar concentration of ATP. The maximum isometric tension
was a high as 10 g cm-2 at 10 microM ATP.


PMID: 7374767  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Nature. 1980 May 15;285(5761):161-3.

Inhibitory effect of prolactin on ovulation in the in vitro perfused rabbit
ovary.

Hamada Y, Schlaff S, Kobayashi Y, Santulli R, Wright KH, Wallach EE.

Prolactin is best known for its effects on the breast, promoting mammary growth
and lactation. In some species, including rat, mouse, hamster, sheep and rabbit, 
prolactin is necessary for the maintenance of the corpus luteum. Further, a
relationship has been recognised between hyperpromus and or adenohypophysis.
McNatty et al. have postulated a direct ovarian effect of prolactin, reporting
that low prolactin levels were essential for progesterone production by
preovulatory human granulosa cells cultured in vitro. However, high levels of
prolactin decreased progesterone production. The present investigation sought to 
determine the effect of prolactin on ovulation using the in vitro perfused rabbit
ovary preparation. We report that its effects are inhibitory.


PMID: 7374766  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Nature. 1980 May 15;285(5761):159-60.

Biotin and the sudden infant death syndrome.

Johnson AR, Hood RL, Emery JL.

A diet which is marginally deficient in the vitamin biotin may cause sudden
unexpected death of young broiler chickens when they are exposed to stress.
Chickens affected with this disorder have low levels of biotin in their livers.
In conditions of biotin insufficiency, we postulate that a similar disorder,
triggered by mild stress, may occur in the human infant. We have now used a
radiochemical technique to measure the biotin content of 204 livers obtained from
infants at autopsy. The levels of biotin in the livers of infants who had died of
sudden infant death syndrom (SIDS; cot death) were significantly lower than those
in livers of infants of similar age, who had died of explicable causes. These
findings support an association of biotin with SIDS.


PMID: 7374765  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Nature. 1980 May 15;285(5761):147-51.

Sea urchin histone mRNA termini are located in gene regions downstream from
putative regulatory sequences.

Hentschel C, Irminger JC, Bucher P, Birnstiel ML.

S1 nuclease mapping of the Psammechinus miliaris embryonic histone mRNAs locates 
the 5' termini in or adjacent to a short sequence homology (5'pyCATTCpu3')
downstream from the putative RNA polymerase II regulatory sequence (5'TATAAATA3')
or related sequences. The 3' termini map just after a sequence containing GC-rich
hyphenated dyad symmetry, a feature of most known terminator sequences.


PMID: 7374764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Nature. 1980 May 15;285(5761):163-5.

Direct evidence for a two-signal mechanism of cytotoxic T-lymphocyte activation.

Teh HS, Teh SJ.

The cellular requirements for the activation of cytotoxic T lymphocytes to
alloantigens are complex. In addition to cytotoxic precursors (CLPs),
metabolically active stimulator cells, adherent accessory (A) cells and
antigen-specific helper T cells are also required. However, the requirement for A
cells, metabolically active stimulator cells or helper T cells can be replaced by
soluble factors or co-stimulator (CoS), a lymphokine obtained by stimulation of
murine spleen cells with concanavalin A (Con A). We show here that in the
presence of CoS, cultures containing on average one lymph node lymphocyte (LNL)
and Con A can be activated to produce single cytotoxic clones. This observation
strongly suggests that one of the target cells of CoS is the CLP and provides
more direct evidence for a two-signal mechanism for cytotoxic T lymphocyte
activation.


PMID: 6966377  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Nature. 1980 May 15;285(5761):167-9.

Avian sarcoma virus-transforming protein, pp60src shows protein kinase activity
specific for tyrosine.

Collett MS, Purchio AF, Erikson RL.

The protein responsible for malignant transformation by avian sarcoma viruses
(ASVs) has been identified as a phosphoprotein of molecular weight 60,000
designated pp60src (refs 1--4). It has been suggested that this protein has a
functional role in cellular transformation involving the phosphorylation of
cellular proteins, for it was discovered that specific immunoprecipitates from
ASV-transformed cells that contain pp60src catalysed the transfer of phosphate
from [gamma-32P]ATP to the heavy chain of rabbit immunoglobulin. Additional
studies involving the cell-free synthesis of the ASV src protein further
demonstrated that the presence of the src polypeptide correlated with that
presence of a phosphotransferase activity. Our studies, involving the biochemical
purification of this protein, have demonstrated that the ASV-transforming gene
product, pp60src, is itself a protein kinase. We have purified the pp60src
protein approximately 5,000-fold using either conventional ion-exchange
chromatography or immunoaffinity chromatography. The resultant partially purified
preparations contain a cyclic AMP-independent protein kinase activity. We report 
here that the soluble phosphotransferase activity of partially purified pp60src
results in the phosphorylation of exclusively tyrosine residues in a variety of
proteins that serve as substrates.


PMID: 6246443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Nature. 1980 May 15;285(5761):144-7.

Model for antenatal diagnosis of beta-thalassaemia and other monogenic disorders 
by molecular analysis of linked DNA polymorphisms.

Little PF, Annison G, Darling S, Williamson R, Camba L, Modell B.

Polymorphisms of DNA restriction sites within the human fetal globin genes have
been used to identify chromosomes that carry beta-thalassaemia genes in
individuals heterozygous for this disease. This has allowed an antenatal
diagnosis for beta-thalassaemia to be carried out by observation of the pattern
of the inherited polymorphism of a linked DNA sequence not involved in the
genetic pathogenesis of the disease. In the populations we have investigated
there is no constant pattern of polymorphism that segregates with the
beta-thalassaemia gene. The use of linked polymorphisms should, therefore, be
applicable to antenatal diagnosis both of beta-thalassaemia and of any other
single-gene defect for which there is a DNA probe specific for a sequence linked 
to the affected locus.


PMID: 6246441  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Nature. 1980 May 15;285(5761):140-3.

Single channel recordings of K+ currents in squid axons.

Conti F, Neher E.

Ionic currents from individual K+ channels in squid axon membrane have been
recorded. At hyperpolarizing membrane voltages, unit events occur as widely
spaced rectangular pulses with short interruptions. The frequency of occurrence
of the units increases strongly when the membrane is depolarized.


PMID: 6246440  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Nature. 1980 May 8;285(5760):99-101.

Ferromagnetic coupling to muscle receptors as a basis for geomagnetic field
sensitivity in animals.

Presti D, Pettigrew JD.

Over the past decade several investigators have provided convincing evidence that
the orientation of pigeons and other birds during homing and migrational
activities is significantly affected by Earth-strength (less than or equal to 0.5
G) magnetic fields. The presumed mediator of such effects would be a highly
sensitive magnetoreceptor which the birds would normally use to extract
navigational information from the geomagnetic field. The recently reported
measurement of magnet remanence in honeybees and in homing pigeons has stimulated
interest in the possibility that the magnetically sensitive structure may be
constructed from permanently magnetic material. Here we report the detection of
permanently magnetic material in the neck musculature of pigeons (Columba livia) 
and migratory white-crowned sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys). We propose that a 
magnetic field detector might involve the coupling of magnetic particles to a
sensitive muscle receptor such as a spindle. A detection mechanism of this kind
could account for the difficulties encountered in conditioning immobile homing
pigeons to magnetic field changes and for the puzzling requirement of movement in
other behavioural experiments involving pigeons and magnetic fields.


PMID: 7374763  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Nature. 1980 May 8;285(5760):109-10.

Saccharin may act as a tumour promoter by inhibiting metabolic cooperation
between cells.

Trosko JE, Dawson B, Yotti LP, Chang CC.

The possible role of saccharin in the carcinogenic process is, at present, still 
unclear. Carcinogenesis is a complex process involving, in many test systems,
initiation and promotion phases. Current evidence favours the hypothesis that
initiation is due to a mutagenic event, while promotion (at least the early
portion) is the result of epigenetic changes. Although saccharin has been
reported to be a weak mutagen in various in vitro test systems and a weak
initiator in mouse skin, there is increasing evidence from in vitro, as well as
in vivo, studies that it might act as a tumour promoter, rather than as a
mutagen. Recently L.P.Y. et al and J.E.T. et al. developed an in vitro assay to
detect tumour promoters, which has been independently reported by Murray and
Fitzgerald. The assay is based on the principle that phorbol ester-type tumour
promoters block 'metabolic cooperation' or a type of cell-cell communication
between cells. We report here a series of experiments demonstrating the
elimination of metabolic cooperation in the hypoxanthine guanine
phosphoribosyltransferase (HGPRT) system in Chinese hamster V79 cells, indicating
that saccharin shares properties similar to those of other known promoters.


PMID: 7374758  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Nature. 1980 May 8;285(5760):108-9.

Levels of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in Friend leukaemic cells.

Yeoh GC.

Most cells are thought to contain trace amounts of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), 
as it acts as a cofactor in the interconversion of 2-phosphoglycerate and
3-phosphoglycerate by the glycolytic enzyme phosphoglyceromutase. DPG is
synthesized from 1,3-diphosphoglycerate by the action of diphosphoglycerate
mutase. Lowry et al. reported levels of 29 mumol DPG per kg wet weight brain
tissue which is approximately 3 pmol per 10(8) cells, assuming that 1 g of brain 
tissue contains 10(9) cells. In contrast, erythroid cells contain 50-100 nmol DPG
per 10(8) cells, depending on the species and the stage of development. This is
of the order of a 1,000-fold more DPG compared with non-erythroid cells. In red
cells DPG concentration modulates the binding of oxygen to haemoglobin. I show
here that erythroid precurser cells also contain markedly raised levels of DPG.


PMID: 7374757  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Nature. 1980 May 8;285(5760):106-8.

Chemical inducers of differentiation in Friend leukaemia cells inhibit lymphocyte
mitogenesis.

Stenzel KH, Schwartz R, Rubin AL, Novogrodsky A.

Several phorbol esters, the potent tumour-promoting agents isolated from croton
oil, induce proliferation of human lymphocytes and enhance the mitogenic effect
of lectins on bovine lymphocytes. While studying the mitogenic properties of one 
of these agents, phorbol myristate acetate (PMA), we found that dimethyl
sulphoxide (DMSO), frequently used as a solvent for PMA, markedly inhibits
PMA-induced mitogenesis at DMSO concentrations that have little effect on
phytohaemagglutinin (PHA)-induced responses. DMSO, as well as a variety of other 
organic compounds, induce erythroid differentiation in Friend leukaemia (FL)
cells. Phorbol esters, on the other hand, are potent inhibitors of both
spontaneous and induced cellular differentiation. We therefore investigated the
relationship between the potency of compounds to induce erythroid differentiation
in FL cells and their potency to inhibit lymphocyte proliferation induced by PMA 
and other mitogens. We report here that many of the compounds that induce
erythroid differentiation in FL cells are similar to DMSO in selectively
suppressing PMA-induced lymphocyte mitogenesis.


PMID: 7374756  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Nature. 1980 May 8;285(5760):78-81.

Mutations which alter the function of the signal sequence of the maltose binding 
protein of Escherichia coli.

Bedouelle H, Bassford PJ Jr, Fowler AV, Zabin I, Beckwith J, Hofnung M.

The maltose binding protein of Escherichia coli is secreted into the external
periplasmic compartment of the cell by virtue of an amino-terminal signal
sequence. Using DNA sequencing, we have determined the precise nature of
mutations in the signal sequence which prevent the export of the maltose binding 
protein, causing it to accumulate in the cytoplasm in its precursor form. In most
cases, the change of a single hydrophobic or uncharged amino acid to a charged
amino acid within the signal sequence is sufficient to block the secretion
process.


PMID: 6990274  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Nature. 1980 May 8;285(5760):73-7.

Calmodulin--an intracellular calcium receptor.

Means AR, Dedman JR.

Calmodulin, a protein that binds calcium with high affinity and specificity, is
structurally conserved and functionally preserved throughout the animal and plant
kingdoms. It serves as an intracellular Ca2+-receptor and mediates the Ca2+
regulation of cyclic nucleotide and glycogen metabolism, secretion, motility and 
Ca2+ transport. Calmodulin is also a dynamic component of the mitotic apparatus.


PMID: 6990273  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


481. Nature. 1980 May 8;285(5760):82-5.

Sequence analysis of mutations that prevent export of lambda receptor, an
Escherichia coli outer membrane protein.

Emr SD, Hedgpeth J, Clément JM, Silhavy TJ, Hofnung M.

The amino-terminal signal sequence is required for initiation of transmembrane
protein transfer of the Escherichia coli lambda receptor protein. Mutations
leading to insertion of charged amino acids into or deletion of amino acids from 
the hydrophobic segment of this sequence prevent export of this outer membrane
protein.


PMID: 6445509  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Nature. 1980 May 8;285(5760):85-91.

The lambda phage att site: functional limits and interaction with Int protein.

Hsu PL, Ross W, Landy A.

Site specific integrative recombination of bacteriophage lambda involves unequal 
partners. The minimal phage att site is composed of approximately 240-base pairs 
and four distinct binding sites for Int protein, at least three of which are
crucial for function. This 'donor site' recombines efficiently with a smaller
'recipient site' that lacks the extensive interactions with Int protein.


PMCID: PMC1994824
PMID: 6246439  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Nature. 1980 May 8;285(5760):101-2.

Evidence for fixed charge in the nexus.

Brink PR, Dewey MM.

The nexus or gap junction has been characterized as a low-resistance junction as 
well as a highly permeable junctional membrane to many molecules. The transfer of
electrical current from one cell interior to another, the aqueous solubility of
dyes used to trace cell to cell communication and the fact that these molecules
move across the nexus more rapidly than the plasma membrane have led to the
hypothesis of an aqueous channel in the junction. Both Ca2+ (ref.11) and H+ (ref.
12) are thought to alter nexal membrane conductance, and a voltage-sensitive gate
has been demonstrated within the junction. Recently, Flagg-Newton et al. have
concluded that mammalian junctions may contain fixed charge or be of smaller
diameter than arthropod junctions. Here we have investigated these alternatives
by examining the permeability of nexuses of septa of the median giant axon of
Lumbricus terrestris with various derivatives of fluorescein. Both
carboxyfluorescein and aminofluorescein were found to have depressed
permeabilities relative to their predicted permeabilities based on molecular size
and weight (MW). Flourescein diffusion was significantly suppressed in axons
pre-injected with aminofluorescein but carboxyfluorescein had no such effect
(Table 1). These data suggest the existence of fixed anionic charge within the
nexal channel which may have affinity for amino groups.


PMID: 6246436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Nature. 1980 May 1;285(5759):49-51.

Raman difference spectroscopy of tertiary and quaternary structure changes in
methaemoglobins.

Rousseau DL, Shelnutt JA, Henry ER, Simon SR.

There have been several resonance Raman scattering investigations of the effect
of inositol hexaphosphate (IHP) on methaemoglobins. In those studies the
sensitivity for detecting frequency differences was limited to 1-2 cm-1, and
consequently frequency differences were not detected although spectral intensity 
differences due to changes in spin equilibria were. Shelnutt et al. recently
reported on the observation of frequency differences induced by changes in the
quaternary structure of chemically modified deoxyhaemoglobins. An improved Raman 
difference spectroscopic technique with 0.1 cm-1 sensitivity allowed the
detection of these differences. We report here the application of this technique 
to a series of methaemoglobins with and without the addition of IHP. In addition 
to the intensity changes resulting from changes in the spin equilibria, we have
observed frequency differences. In all liganded methaemo-globins that we examined
a decrease in frequency of the mode in the 1,370 cm-1 region was observed on
addition of IHP. In those in which a quaternary structure change is known to
occur the frequency difference is greater than 0.5 cm-1. In those in which no
quaternary structure change occurs [metHbA(CN-) and methHbA(N-3)] the frequency
difference is smaller (approximately 0.15 cm-1).


PMID: 7374753  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Nature. 1980 May 1;285(5759):41-3.

Migration of capillary endothelial cells is stimulated by tumour-derived factors.

Zetter BR.

Angiogenesis, the growth of new blood vessels, occurs normally during
osteogenesis, luteinisation and the development of the embryo, and in
pathological states such as chronic inflammation, certain immune reactions and
neoplasia. Furthermore, solid tumours have been reported to secrete a diffusible 
factor which promotes the directional growth of new capillaries towards a growing
tumour. Two events required for the formation of a new capillary in response to
an angiogenesis factor in vivo are the migration and subsequent proliferation of 
capillary endothelial cells. Progress in purifying angiogenesis factors and
studying their action has been hindered, however, by the lack of quantitative in 
vitro assays for capillary cell migration and proliferation. Recently, we have
been able to isolate clonal cell lines of bovine capillary endothelial cells that
can be maintained in long-term culture using tumour-conditioned growth medium. I 
now report a quantitative in vitro assay for endothelial cell migration based on 
the phagokinetic track assay of Albrecht-Buehler. The evidence presented here
demonstrates that tumour-derived factors stimulate the migration of capillary
endothelial cells whereas the same factors have no effect on the migration of
aortic endothelial cells.


PMID: 6990271  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Nature. 1980 May 1;285(5759):36-8.

Expression of human alpha-globin genes in hybrid mouse erythroleukaemia cells
depends on differentiated state of human donor cell.

Deisseroth A, Bode U, Fontana J, Hendrick D.

We have developed a system which can be used to study the mechanisms that may
govern the expression of human alpha-globin genes in human erythroid and
non-erythroid haematopoietic cells. Human chromosome 16, which has been shown to 
bear the human alpha-globin genes, is introduced by cell fusion into mouse
erythroleukemia (MEL) cells to generate continuously proliferating cell lines
that retain permanently the human alpha-globin genes. We have shown that hybrid
diploid MEL cells with human alpha-globin genes from erythroid donor cells
express these genes fully through globin chain synthesis, while hybrid diploid
MEL cells containing human alpha-globin genes from non-erythroid human
haematopoietic donor cells contain very low levels of human alpha-globin mRNA and
no detectable human alpha-globin chains. The levels of human alpha-globin mRNA in
these hybrid cells were found to depend on factors present in the MEL recipient
cell as well as on the differentiated state of the human donor cell, suggesting
that this system may be suitable for characterisation of mechanisms governing
haematopoietic differentiation in man.


PMID: 6929406  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Nature. 1980 May 1;285(5759):34-6.

Cytotoxic T-cell response to H-Y in 'non-responder' CBA mice.

Müllbacher A, Brenan M.

Murine cytotoxic T-cell (Tc cell) responses to various antigens are controlled by
immune response genes (Ir) mapping in the major histocompatibility complex (H-2).
Both helper T cells, controlled by I region-coded genes, and Tc cells, controlled
by K/D antigens, are necessary for a positive response. An H-2-restricted Tc-cell
response to the male specific minor transplantation antigen (H-Y) can be elicited
in B10 (H-2b) female mice primed with syngeneic male spleen cells
intraperitoneally (i.p.) or intravenously (i.v.), or by skin grafting followed by
restimulation in vitro in mixed lymphocyte culture (MLR) with male cells. CBA
(H-2k) mice do not respond by these routes of in vivo priming, and this was
thought to be due to a lack of permissible Ir genes for helper function. However,
we now report that subcutaneous hind-footpad (fp) immunisation of 'non-responder'
CBA mice with syngeneic male cells changes them to responders, a result which
argues against a generalised Ir gene-controlled helper defect.


PMID: 6769049  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Nature. 1980 May 1;285(5759):17-21.

Biosynthesis of the pigments of life: formation of the macrocycle.

Battersby AR, Fookes CJ, Matcham GW, McDonald E.

The organic nuclei of chlorophylls, haems, cytochromes and vitamin B12 are
biosynthesised from a single tetrapyrrolic intermediate which has an unexpected, 
rearranged structure. The mechanism of biosynthesis of this key intermediate has 
now been characterised in detail. Some of the information thereby obtained is
also of use in the investigation of human diseases such as the porphyrias.


PMID: 6769048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Nature. 1980 May 1;285(5759):21-5.

Inverted terminal repetition in vaccinia virus DNA encodes early mRNAs.

Wittek R, Barbosa E, Cooper JA, Garon CF, Chan H, Moss B.

Vaccinia virus DNA contains a long inverted terminal repetition of MW
approximately 6.8 x 10(6). A fragment of MW 6.3 X 10(6) from this repetition has 
been cloned in coliphage lambda and used to isolate RNA from virus-infected
cells. Electron microscopy indicates that early RNAs are transcribed from the
repeated sequence and cell-free translation shows that the RNAs code for
polypeptides.


PMID: 6445508  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Nature. 1980 Apr 17;284(5757):638-40.

Recombination of human influenza A viruses in nature.

Bean WJ Jr, Cox NJ, Kendal AP.

In 1977, a unique event occurred in the epidemiology of influenza when a virus of
the influenza A (H1N1) subtype, similar to a virus that had occurred in 1950,
reappeared and caused worldwide epidemics but did not replace the prevailing
influenza A (H2N2) subtype. Consequently, the two viruses co-circulated
throughout the world and mixed infection of some individuals with both virus
strains was detected, raising the possiblitity that recombination between the two
strains might affect the future epidemiological behaviour of influenza.
Serological analysis of virus isolates from influenza outbreaks during the winter
of 1978-79, however, failed to detect any antigenic hybrids (H2N1 or H1N2). The
investigation described here, was therefore, undertaken to detect recombinants
among recent isolates of the H1N1 and H3N1 serotypes, involving genes coding for 
other than the surface proteins by RNA-RNA hybridisation. We report here the
genetic characterisation of recombinants of both antigenic types.


PMID: 7366737  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Nature. 1980 Apr 17;284(5757):629-31.

Vitamin C preferential toxicity for malignant melanoma cells.

Bram S, Froussard P, Guichard M, Jasmin C, Augery Y, Sinoussi-Barre F, Wray W.

Vitamin C has been suggested and disputed as an anti-cancer agent. For cells in
culture, no preferential effect against any type of cancer has yet been
demonstrated. Our aim here is to show that vitamin C is selectively toxic to at
least one type of malignant cell--a melanoma--at concentrations that might be
attained in humans. Copper ions react with ascorbate and generate free radicals
in solution. Ascorbate when combined with copper rapidly reduces the viscosity of
DNA solutions and has exhibited some carcinostatic effects on transplanted
sarcoma 180 tumours in mice. We reasoned that the elevated copper concentration
in melanoma could result in a more selective toxicity for ascorbate.


PMID: 7366735  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Nature. 1980 Apr 17;284(5757):622-4.

Role of NK cells in tumour growth and metastasis in beige mice.

Talmadge JE, Meyers KM, Prieur DJ, Starkey JR.

Although natural killer (NK) cells are thought to give the host a spontaneous
resistance against tumours and have been postulated to act in vivo as surveillor 
cells, definitive data in support of these hypotheses has not been obtained.
Recently the beige (bg) mouse, a morphological homologue of the human
Chediak-Higashi (CH) syndrome, was shown to be deficient in NK activity.
Specifically, spleen cells of bg mice were demonstrated to be incapable of in
vitro natural cytotoxicity against tumour cells. We report here that a tumour
line, modified to be sensitive to NK cytotoxicity by in vitro culture,
demonstrated in vivo an increased growth rate, faster induction time and an
increased metastatic capability in bg compared to control mice. This was not
found with a tumour line insensitive to NK activity (without in vitro culture).
In vivo activation of NK cells in bg and control mice resulted in a decrease in
tumour growth rate and metastatic frequency. These results demonstrate that NK
cells have an important function in the host's control of tumour growth and
metastasis.


PMID: 7366733  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Nature. 1980 Apr 17;284(5757):604-7.

Selfish DNA: the ultimate parasite.

Orgel LE, Crick FH.

The DNA of higher organisms usually falls into two classes, one specific and the 
other comparatively nonspecific. It seems plausible that most of the latter
originates by the spreading of sequences which had little or no effect on the
phenotype. We examine this idea from the point of view of the natural selection
of preferred replicators within the genome.


PMID: 7366731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Nature. 1980 Apr 17;284(5757):618-20.

Autoregulation in rats with transplanted supernumerary kidneys.

Gittes RF, Rist M, Treves S, Biewiner A.

Autoregulation of mammalian renal function is implicit in the fact that a few
hours after removal of one kidney the activity of the intact nephrons in the
other kidney suddenly increases, both in glomerular filtration and tubular
reabsorption. There follows a slower but easily measured increase in renal
mass-compensatory hypertrophy in each residual nephron. That response to a
reduction of nephrons has been well studied, but the adaptation of normal renal
function to additional nephrons could not be tested until microsurgical
techniques made it possible to transplant one or two additional kidneys into
normal rats. We report here sequential measurements of the total renal function
of rats with three and four kidneys. Our results indicate that autoregulation
maintains total renal function at normal levels in spite of a doubling in the
number of nephrons and apparent renal mass.


PMID: 6988726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Nature. 1980 Apr 17;284(5757):632-5.

A novel alpha-globin gene arrangement in man.

Higgs DR, Old JM, Pressley L, Clegg JB, Weatherall DJ.

The human genome has two linked alpha-globin genes on chromosome 16. Deletion of 
one or more of them, as occurs in alpha-thalassaemia, leads to a reduced output
of alpha-globin mRNA in proportion to the number of alpha-globin genes lost. In
some racial groups deletion of one of the pair of alpha-globin genes may result
from unequal crossing over between the genes on homologous chromosomes by a
mechanism resembling that postulated for the formation of the delta beta fusion
genes of the Lepore haemoglobins. By analogy, the opposite chromosome in this
cross-over should have three alpha-globin genes just as the 'anti-Lepore
chromosome has three non-alpha chain genes. We describe here a Welsh family in
which three members have five alpha-globn increased alpha mRNA output and it may 
therefore produce the phenotype of mild beta-thalassaemia.


PMID: 6245373  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Nature. 1980 Apr 17;284(5757):626-9.

Retinoids specifically enhance the number of epidermal growth factor receptors.

Jetten AM.

Retinoids elicit many biological and biochemical responses from cells in vitro.
One widely used criterion for the responsiveness of cells to retinoids is
inhibition of growth; retinoids reduce the saturation density and/or growth rate 
of many normal and tumorigenic cell lines. Propagation of eukaryotic cells has
been demonstrated to be dependent on the presence of macromolecular growth
factors such as epidermal growth factor (EGF), which can stimulate proliferation 
of epithelial and fibroblastic cell lines. We now describe the effect of
retinoids on the binding of EGF to its receptor. Retinoic acid enhances binding
of 125I-labelled EGF to various fibroblastic and epidermal cell lines. It has no 
marked effect on the affinity of this growth factor for its receptor, but
increases the number of EGF receptor sites. Retinoic acid has little effect on
the binding of concanavalin A (Con A) and insulin, indicating the specific nature
of the action of retinoids on cell-surface glycoproteins. Treatment of cells with
the phorbol ester 12-o-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) and retinoic acid
shows poor antagonism between these compounds on EGF binding. It has been
previously shown that retinoids induce or stimulate differentiation of embryonal 
carcinoma cells. EGF binding can be used as a marker to monitor differentiation
of these cells.


PMID: 6245371  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Nature. 1980 Apr 17;284(5757):616-8.

In vitro effects of high molecular weight forms of ACTH on the fetal sheep
adrenal.

Roebuck MM, Jones CT, Holland D, Silman R.

The direct involvement of the pituitary-adrenal axis in birth has been well
established, at least in sheep, and its removal prolongs pregnancy. As part of
the process the fetal sheep adrenal grows rapidly during the 10-15 d prepartum
and is associated with a large rise in the plasma corticosteroid concentration.
This does not seem to result from an increased ACTH secretion. The fetal adrenal 
in vivo seems refractory to circulating ACTH and shows poor response to elevation
of plasma concentration. Thus the signal for the adrenal hypertrophy and the
initiation of parturition remains unclear. The responsiveness of the fetal
adrenal to ACTH has been re-examined using isolated adrenal cells. The study
shows that in the fetal sheep these are not inherently unresponsive to ACTH, but 
that high-molecular-weight forms of ACTH block the action of ACTH. These peptides
may be responsible for controlling the activity of the adrenal in situ.


PMID: 6245370  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Nature. 1980 Apr 17;284(5757):601-3.

Selfish genes, the phenotype paradigm and genome evolution.

Doolittle WF, Sapienza C.

Natural selection operating within genomes will inevitably result in the
appearance of DNAs with no phenotypic expression whose only 'function' is
survival within genomes. Prokaryotic transposable elements and eukaryotic
middle-repetitive sequences can be seen as such DNA's and thus no phenotypic or
evolutionary function need be assigned to them.


PMID: 6245369  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Nature. 1980 Apr 10;284(5756):572-3.

Correlation of IR spectroscopic, heat capacity, diamagnetic susceptibility and
enzymatic measurements on lysozyme powder.

Careri G, Gratton E, Yang PH, Rupley JA.

The interaction between protein and water is of fundamental importance for
processes ranging from protein folding and enzymatic activity to anhydrobiosis.
In this letter we bring together results from diverse types of measurements to
give a unified picture of the hydration process for lysozyme. The data come
principally from experiments with protein films and powders. The principal aim is
to examine the relationship between the sites of water interaction, the extent of
coverage, and the enzymatic activity, thus providing a better understanding of
the relationship between water and enzyme dynamics.


PMID: 7366728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Nature. 1980 Apr 10;284(5756):568-70.

Study of haem structure of photo-deligated haemoglobin by picosecond resonance
Raman spectra.

Coppey M, Tourbez H, Valat P, Alpert B.

It is well known that the oxygen affinity of haemoglobin depends on the number of
combined oxygen molecules. This cooperative effect is considered to arise from a 
reversible protein transition between two forms which differ in tertiary and
quaternary structure. However, the various steps of the structural changes
concerning the protein and the haem have not been identified. Using time-resolved
spectroscopy coupled to flash photolysis, we have attempted to elucidate the
influence of protein on the relaxation processes of haem in haemoglobin. We now
report our first results obtained in a picosecond time-resolved resonance Raman
study of haemoglobin.


PMID: 7366726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Nature. 1980 Apr 10;284(5756):566-8.

A plasmid associated with virulence in the marine fish pathogen Vibrio
anguillarum specifies an iron-sequestering system.

Crosa JH.

Many of the high-virulence strains of the marine fish pathogen Vibrio anguillarum
isolated from epizootics of the widespread fish disease vibriosis, harbour a
specific plamid class which is absent from low-virulence strains. Curing
experiments have confirmed a link between this specific plasmic class and the
ability of V. anguillarum to establish infections. In general, all bacterial
virulence factors promote growth in the antagonistic environment of the host
defence mechanisms. One line of defence is provided by the proteins transferrin
and lactoferrin, which bind iron, rendering it unavailable to pathogens. A
mechanism whereby invading bacteria may successfully compete for the otherwise
unavailable iron could therefore become crucial in enabling them to proliferate
in body fluids and tissues. I report here evidence which shows that the V.
anguillarum virulence plasmid specifies a very efficient iron-sequestering system
enabling bacteria to survive in conditions of limited iron availability.


PMID: 7366725  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Nature. 1980 Apr 10;284(5756):560-1.

Calcium transients in mammalian muscles.

Eusebi F, Miledi R, Takahashi T.

Contraction of vertebrate skeletal muscle is caused by calcium ions released from
the sarcoplasmic reticulum (see refs 1, 2 for reviews). The ensuing transient
change in the intracellular level of ionised calcium has been monitored using
various Ca2+ indicators, sich as murexide, aequorin, and arsenazo III. So far,
most of what is known about these calcium transient derives from experiments on
barnacle or frog muscles fibres, and it is desirable to extend such studies to
mammalian muscle. We report here that the photoprotein aequorin can be used to
monitor calcium transients in rat and human muscles, and that the transients
decay more quickly in fast contracting muscle fibres.


PMID: 7366724  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Nature. 1980 Apr 10;284(5756):550-2.

Role of the blastocoele microenvironment in early mouse embryo differentiation.

Pedersen RA, Spindle AI.

During preimplantation development, the mouse embryo differentiates into an outer
layer of cells, the trophectoderm, and an inner group, the inner cell mass.
Tarkowski and Wróblewska proposed that this differentiation depends on the
position of blastomeres in the morula, with outside cells giving rise to
trophectoderm and inside cells producing the inner cell mass. This epigenetic
hypothesis has been confirmed by other studies in which blastomere position was
altered at the 4-cell of 8-cell stage, thus demonstrating the totipotency of the 
blastomeres at these stages. It was recently found that the inner cell mass of
the early blastocyst is also totipotent and can form trophectoderm when isolated 
by immunosurgery. Because inner cells apparently become committed during the time
that they are exposed to the distinct microenvironment of the blastocyst, we
postulated that diffusible components or other factors in the blastocoele may
have a role in the commitment of cells in the inner cell mass. We report here
results, obtained by injecting donor cells into host blastocysts, showing that
totipotent cells exposed only to blastocoele fluid differentiate into
morphologically normal blastocysts, whereas those in contact with the
blastocyst's inner surface do not.


PMID: 7366723  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Nature. 1980 Apr 10;284(5756):531-4.

2H NMR study of molecular motion in collagen fibrils.

Jelinski LW, Sullivan CE, Torchia DA.

Collagen was labelled through tissue culture with [3,3,3-d3]alanine. 2HNMR
spectra were obtained of the labelled collagen as fibrils and in solution using
the quadrupolar echo technique for solids. The 2H NMR data were analysed in terms
of a model for reorientation in which the molecule is considered to jump between 
two orientations in a time which is short compared to the residence time in each 
site, and short compared to (delta vq)-1. The best fit of the data indicates that
the collagen molecule in the fibrils experiences reorientation about its long
axis over an angular range of approximately 30--40 degrees. The T2 for
[3,3,3-d3]alanine-labelled collagen fibrils is estimated to be approximately 110 
mus.


PMID: 7366722  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Nature. 1980 Apr 10;284(5756):561-3.

Progressive inhibition of the Ca pump and Ca:Ca exchange in sickle red cells.

Bookchin RM, Lew VL.

Sickle cell anaemia red cells (SS) were reported to have a high Ca content and an
increased Ca uptake on deoxygenation, but their Ca-pump activity was described as
normal. This seemed puzzling because the saturated Ca-extrusion rate of the
normal, high Ca-affinity Ca pump is about 10 mmol per 1 cells per h (refs 3, 4)
and the highest sickling-induced Ca influx reported in SS cells and observed in
ATP-depleted sickle-trait (SA) red cells never exceeded 0.2 mmol per 1 cells per 
h. Normal pump performance is, therefore, incompatible with Ca accumulation
unless SS cells have abnormally high Ca-binding capacity. We provide here
evidence which suggests that SS cells have normal Ca-buffering capacity and
probably genetically normal Ca pumps, but that the sickling process causes
progressive Ca-pump failure and a marked reduction in Ca:Ca exchange.


PMID: 6445042  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Nature. 1980 Apr 10;284(5756):553-5.

A new immunodeficiency disorder in humans involving NK cells.

Roder JC, Haliotis T, Klein M, Korec S, Jett JR, Ortaldo J, Heberman RB, Katz P, 
Fauci AS.

Immunodeficiency disorders have provided much information on the development and 
interaction of the various B and T lymphoid components in the immune system of
man. As the lymphoid system becomes increasingly divided into functional subsets 
of cells it will be important to find immunodeficiencies affecting newly
discovered cell types. Natural killer (NK) cells are a recently described but
ill-defined subpopulation of lymphocytes which is thought to play an important
part in surveillance against tumour development. Mice homozygous for the beige
gene were found to have a selective deficiency in NK function and were more
susceptible to transplantation of syngeneic tumours as predicted. We report here 
that patients carrying the analogous, autosomal recessive Chediak-Higashi (CH)
gene have a profound defect in their ability to spontaneously lyse various tumour
cells in vitro by either antibody-dependent or independent mechanisms. Since
other cell-mediated cytolytic functions were relatively normal, these results
suggest that the beige or Chediak-Higashi gene in both man and mouse controls NK 
function.


PMID: 6445041  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Nature. 1980 Apr 10;284(5756):558-60.

A site for the potentiation of GABA-mediated responses by benzodiazepines.

Simmonds MA.

The benzodiazepines have been well characterised as minor tranquillizers and
attempts to explain their unique spectrum of activity have included suggestions
that they may interact with a variety of neurotransmitter systems. Recently, a
possible interaction with the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) system has received 
most attention. Benzodiazepines potentiate the actions of both synaptically
released and exogenously administered GABA on mammalian neuronal preparations but
the site of action within the GABA response mechanism has not been determined.
Binding studies suggest that benzodiazepines combine with highly specific sites
in the neuronal membrane and that these sites have some indirect association with
GABA receptors. To investigate this association further in a functioning GABA
system, quantitative studies have been made in vitro on neuronal depolarisations 
mediated by GABA receptor activation. Evidence has already been presented that
bicuculline is most probably a competitive antagonist at the GABA receptor while 
picrotoxin acts as an antagonist at a separate site. Here flurazepam is shown to 
attenuate preferentially the action of picrotoxin rather than bicuculline and a
model is suggested for the site of action of these drugs within the GABA response
mechanism.


PMID: 6245368  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Nature. 1980 Apr 10;284(5756):555-6.

Glucocorticoid-induced thymocyte apoptosis is associated with endogenous
endonuclease activation.

Wyllie AH.

In near-physiological concentrations, glucocorticoid hormones cause the death of 
several types of normal and neoplastic lymphoid cell, but the mechanisms involved
are unknown. One of the earliest structural changes in the dying cell is
widespread chromatin condensation, of the type characteristic of apoptosis, the
mode of death frequently observed where cell deletion seems to be 'programmed'.
It is shown here that this morphological change is closely associated with
excision of nucleosome chains from nuclear chromatin, apparently through
activation of an intracellular, but non-lysosomal, endonuclease.


PMID: 6245367  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Nature. 1980 Apr 10;284(5756):515-21.

Peptidergic neurones.

Hökfelt T, Johansson O, Ljungdahl A, Lundberg JM, Schultzberg M.

More than 20 peptides have been identified in neurones of the brain, spinal cord 
and periphery. In several cases a peptide occurs together with a 'classical'
transmitter in the same neurone. This raises new questions about the process of
neurotransmission and may have important implications for our understanding and
treatment of mental disorders.


PMID: 6154244  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Nature. 1980 Apr 3;284(5755):489-91.

Brillouin scattering, density and elastic properties of the lens and cornea of
the eye.

Vaughan JM, Randall JT.

Brillouin spectra of biological systems may ultimately be related to their
intrinsic molecular properties. In some instances the optical properties may be
associated with the elastic ones and ultimately with the force constants of the
molecules involved. In the present work we have used a triple-pass Fabry-Perot
interferometer to measure Brillouin light scattering spectra for refractive
tissues of the eye, including cornea, capsule and lens. Combined with
corresponding measurements of density, estimates of the real and imaginary parts 
M' and M'' of the longitudinal bulk modulus have been made for the first time.
Measurements have extended over four classes of vertebrate: Mammalia, Aves,
Pisces and Amphibia; only small differences have been found between the various
samples of cornea, whereas marked differences occur between the different lenses.
Hence this account concentrates largely on the latter. The implications of this
work lie not so much at the ophthalmological level as at the macromolecular and
offer, in conjunction with other scattering techniques, opportunities for probing
the lens and its proteins topographically as a function of growth.


PMID: 7360286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Nature. 1980 Apr 3;284(5755):486-7.

Association of lysophosphatidylcholine with fatty acids in aqueous phase to form 
bilayers.

Jain MK, van Echteld CJ, Ramirez F, de Gier J, de Haas GH, van Deenen LL.

Lysophospholipids have been implicated in a variety of physiological process. In 
vivo lysophospholipids are invariably produced with fatty acids as the product of
hydrolysis by phospholipase A2 (ref. 2). Therefore, it is of considerable
interest to examine the properties of the mixture of these lipids in aqueous
suspensions. Results presented here demonstrate that a mixture of fatty acid and 
lysophosphatidylcholine forms a bilayer type of organisation even though the
individual components form micelles when dispersed in an aqueous phase.


PMID: 7360285  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Nature. 1980 Apr 3;284(5755):468-70.

A newly identified population of presumptive microneurones in the cat retinal
ganglion cell layer.

Hughes A, Wieniawa-Narkiewicz E.

A large population of microneurones has recently been discovered in the rabbit
retinal ganglion cell layer. These 'coronate' cells may represent a class of
displaced amacrine cells. Like conventional amacrine cells they are swiftly and
selectively destroyed by low concentrations of kainic acid, a neurotoxin. No
similar cell has been described in the cat retina, which is reported to contain
217-260,000 neurones of classical appearance. These outnumber the 128-180,000
optic nerve fibres but it has been suggested that the excess comprise
Nissl-staining glial cells. We report here that, using the neurotoxic effects of 
kainic acid to test and confirm the neuronal nature of the classic neurone
excess, a large additional population of at least 730,000 presumptive
microneurones was revealed. They resemble rabbit coronate cells, do not project
into the optic nerve and have been previously identified as presumed glia.
Various lines of evidence for the neuronal nature of these cells is presented
below, but synapses have not been demonstrated; subsequent reference to
microneurones must therefore be regarded as presumptive.


PMID: 7360282  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Nature. 1980 Apr 3;284(5755):464-7.

Characterisation of an adrenal zona glomerulosa-stimulating component of
posterior pituitary extracts as alpha-MSH.

Vinson GP, Whitehouse BJ, Dell A, Etienne T, Morris HR.

The secretion of aldosterone from the zona glomerulosa of the mammalian adrenal
cortex is stimulated by ACTH, potassium, angiotensin II and III, growth hormone, 
serotonin and E series prostaglandins. Some experimental and clinical studies
suggest that additional stimulants of the zona glomerulosa must exist, possibly
including pituitary factors other than ACTH. The possibility that posterior
pituitary extracts may contain a zona glomerulosa stimulant was first suggested
20 years ago, but has since received little attention. We describe here the
purification from posterior pituitary extracts of activities that stimulate rat
glomerulosa cells and whole tissue in vitro. One of the active compounds has been
identified as alpha-MSH (melanocyte stimulating hormone).


PMID: 7360281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Nature. 1980 Apr 3;284(5755):418-21.

Transforming activity of DNA of chemically transformed and normal cells.

Cooper GM, Okenquist S, Silverman L.

DNA fragments of chemically transformed and normal avian and murine cells induce 
transformation of NIH 3T3 mouse cells with low efficiencies. High molecular
weight DNAs of cells transformed by DNA fragments induce transformation with high
efficiencies in secondary transfection assays. It thus seems that endogenous
transforming genes of uninfected cells can be activated and efficiently
transmitted by transfection. These results are consistent with the hypothesis
that normal cells contain genes that are capable of inducing transformation if
expressed at abnormal levels.


PMID: 7360280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Nature. 1980 Apr 3;284(5755):472-3.

Haloperidol-induced catalepsy is mediated by postsynaptic dopamine receptors.

Sanberg PR.

Antipsychotic or neuroleptic drugs, which block central dopamine receptors,
produce a behavioural state in animals in which they fail to correct externally
imposed postures. This is referred to as catalepsy. Previous lesion studies have 
shown that the dopamine receptors in the striatum are involved in this
neuroleptic-induced catalepsy. Dopamine receptors, identified by the specific,
high-affinity binding of the potent neuroleptic haloperiodol, have been shown to 
be equally distributed postsynaptically on striatal neurones and presynaptically 
on cortico-striatal terminals. Because the electrolytic lesioning studies have
unavoidably damaged both pre- and postsynaptic striatal dopamine receptors, it is
not known whether these two receptors are separately involved in
neuroleptic-induced catalepsy. Using kainic acid and cortical ablation to destroy
postsynaptic and presynaptic dopamine receptors, respectively, the present study 
demonstrates that the cataleptic effects of haloperidol are apparently mediated
by dopamine receptors localised postsynaptically on striatal neurones.


PMID: 7189016  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Nature. 1980 Apr 3;284(5755):426-30.

Unequal crossing over in the ribosomal DNA of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Szostak JW, Wu R.

Unequal sister chromatid exchanges occur at the ribosomal DNA locus of yeast
during mitotic growth. The frequency of unequal crossing over, as measured by the
deletion or duplication of an inserted genetic marker (LEU2), is sufficient to
maintain the sequence homogeneity of the rDNA repeat units.


PMID: 6987539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Nature. 1980 Apr 3;284(5755):422-5.

Gene transfer in intact animals.

Cline MJ, Stang H, Mercola K, Morse L, Ruprecht R, Brown J, Salser W.

Resistance to methotrexate was induced in bone marrow cells of mice by
transformation in vitro with DNA from a drug-resistant cell line. Transformed
cells were injected in vivo and haematopoietic cells expressing resistance were
selected by drug treatment of recipients. Transformed cells had elevated levels
of dihydrofolate reductase and demonstrated a proliferative advantage over
untransformed cells, indicating successful gene transfer.


PMID: 6987538  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Nature. 1980 Apr 3;284(5755):475-7.

Vegetative Dictyostelium cells containing 17 actin genes express a single major
actin.

Vandekerckhove J, Weber K.

Although actin is highly conserved between different eukaryotic species, six
tissue-specific actins have been characterised in higher vertebrates by complete 
amino acid sequence analysis (two cytoplasmic actins, two smooth muscle actins
and two sarcomeric actins). Their tissue specificity suggests they may differ in 
some important although unknown physiological property. Actin expression in lower
eukaryotes seems to be a simpler process than in higher eukaryotes since
biochemical experiments have indicated only one major type in purified
preparations from various species. However, Firtel et al. have isolated several
recombinant plasmids containing sequences of Dictyostelium discoldeum DNA
complementary to actin messenger RNA and have suggested that this unicellular
slime mould may have 17 actin genes potentially giving rise to several different 
actins. We have, therefore, determined the complete amino acid sequence of actin 
from vegetative Dictyostelium cells. This sequence is unique and agrees with the 
DNA sequences of four actin genes for that region of the DNA, which is currently 
known. The protein sequence does not agree with the three other 'genes' and we
discuss the possible expression of minor actin species.


PMID: 6892652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Nature. 1980 Apr 3;284(5755):452-5.

Mouse Cmu heavy chain immunoglobulin gene segment contains three intervening
sequences separating domains.

Calame K, Rogers J, Early P, Davis M, Livant D, Wall R, Hood L.

The IgM molecule is composed of subunits made up of two light chain and two heavy
chain (mu) polypeptides. The mu chain is encoded by several gene
segments--variable (V), joining (J) and constant (Cmu). The Cmu gene segment is
of particular interest for several reasons. First, the mu chain must exist in two
very different environments--as an integral membrane protein in receptor IgM
molecules (micrometer) and as soluble serum protein in IgM molecules into the
blood (mus). Second, the Cmu region in mus is composed of four homology units or 
domains (Cmu1, Cmu2, Cmu3 and Cmu4) of approximately 110 amino acid residues plus
a C-terminal tail of 19 residues. We asked two questions concerning the
organisation of the Cmu gene segment. (1) Are the homology units separated by
intervening DNA sequences as has been reported for alpha (ref. 5), gamma 1 (ref. 
6) and gamma 2b (ref. 7) heavy chain genes? (2) Is the C-terminal tail separated 
from the Cmu4 domain by an intervening DNA sequence? If so, DNA rearrangements or
RNA splicing could generate hydrophilic and hydrophobic C-terminal tails for the 
mus and micrometer polypeptides, respectively. We demonstrate here that
intervening DNA sequences separate each of the four coding regions for Cmu
domains, and that the coding regions for the Cmu4 domains and the C-terminal tail
are directly contiguous.


PMID: 6767197  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Nature. 1980 Apr 3;284(5755):451-2.

Serotyping Plasmodium falciparum malaria with S-antigens.

Wilson RJ.

The heat-stable proteins known as S-antigens which are associated with Plasmodium
falciparum malarial infections in man show considerable serological diversity.
Usually, different S-antigens appear in separate malarial episodes in individuals
exposed to reinfection. The antigens have a worldwide distribution in endemic
areas but the restricted number and characteristic specificity of S-antigens
recovered from experimentally infected Aotus monkeys suggest that these antigens 
might provide suitable markers for serotyping isolates of P. falciparum. Two
kinds of evidence to support this idea are presented here. First, S-antigens
which characterise an isolate of parasites are shown to retain their specificity 
over long periods of passage either in vivo or in vitro. Second, predictable
mixtures of S-antigens can be recovered from cultures of P. falciparum after
deliberately mixing isolates which each give rise to characteristic S-antigens.


PMID: 6767196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Nature. 1980 Apr 3;284(5755):459-61.

High-affinity binding of 125I-labelled mouse interferon to a specific cell
surface receptor.

Aguet M.

Previous research suggests that interferon binds to the cell surface, possibly by
attachment to gangliosides. A two-component receptor system consisting of binding
and activation sites has been proposed. This hypothesis is supported by the
finding that interferon inhibits binding of cholera toxin and thyrotropin to
their receptors suggesting possible common receptor sites. Moreover, an antiserum
against cell surface components of interferon-sensitive cells has been shown to
inhibit the action of interferon. However, to understand the interaction of
interferon with the cell surface requires direct ligand-binding studies. I
present here direct evidence that high-affinity binding of interferon to a
specific cell surface receptor is an initial step in interferon action using
biologically active purified 125I-labelled mouse interferon. Labelled interferon 
binds specifically to interferon-sensitive mouse leukaemia L1210 cells, whereas
binding to interferon-resistant L1210 cells is nonspecific. Furthermore, specific
binding to monolayer cultures of mouse L929 cells is compared with nonspecific
binding to chick embryo fibroblasts insensitive to the action of mouse
interferon.


PMID: 6444699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Nature. 1980 Apr 3;284(5755):477-9.

Long spacers among ribosomal genes of Drosophila melanogaster.

Indik ZK, Tartof KD.

The fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, has 200 tandemly arranged copies of the
ribosomal RNA genes (rDNA) per haploid genome. One such cluster of rRNA genes
occurs on the X and one on the Y chromosome. The basic repeating unit of the rRNA
gene consists of a segment coding for 18S rRNA and 28S rRNA followed by a
non-transcribed spacer (Fig.1). In the X chromosome, there are two major size
classes (12 and 17 kilobases) and numerous minor size classes of rDNA repeats.
Most of this length heterogeneity is generated by insertions at a specific site
in the 28S gene. The frequency and size patterns of these insertions in the 28S
gene differ in the X and Y chromosomes. Electron microscopic analysis of
rDNA-rRNA hybrids has shown that there is also length heterogeneity in the rDNA
non-transcribed spacer. This heterogeneity is due in part to internal sequence
repetition. We have now examined further the length heterogeneity of the rDNA
spacer and have observed a class of spacers that we shall refer to as 'long
spacers'. The size and frequency of these long spacers are different in the X and
Y rDNA.


PMID: 6244507  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Nature. 1980 Apr 3;284(5755):487-9.

Counting integral numbers of amino acid residues per polypeptide chain.

Creighton TE.

Proteins have integral numbers of each of the 20 amino acids. However, all the
currently accepted methods of determining this number measure the ratio of moles 
of amino acid residue per mole of protein. This value is rarely close to an
integer, due to experimental errors in determination of the molar amounts of both
amino acid residues and polypeptide chain. A simple method which gives integral
values of amino acid residues per polypeptide chain, independent of any other
properties of the protein, would be useful in characterising proteins. We
describe here one method; it is illustrated for the case of Cys residues,
although the approach should be useful for many of the other 19 usual amino
acids.


PMID: 6153762  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Nature. 1980 Mar 27;284(5754):366-8.

Protective monoclonal antibodies recognising stage-specific merozoite antigens of
a rodent malaria parasite.

Freeman RR, Trejdosiewicz AJ, Cross GA.

Immunity to malaria is mediated, at least in part, by antibody. Resistance to
infection has been passively transferred with immune serum or its immunoglobulin 
fraction in human, simian and rodent malaria. However, because of the structural 
and antigenic complexity of the malaria parasites, it has proved difficult to
identify and characterise those parasite antigens against which protective
antibody is directed. We have produced several hybrid cell lines secreting
monoclonal antibodies against the rodent malaria parasite, Plasmodium yoelii, and
we now report that, of the antibodies tested, only those specific for antigens
exclusive to the merozoite were protective in passive transfer experiments. Other
anti-P. yoelii monoclonal antibodies, apparently recognising antigens in the
membrane of the infected erythrocyte, were not protective on passive transfer.
The protective monoclonal antibodies should be useful in the isolation of the
important antigens of this parasite.


PMID: 7360274  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Nature. 1980 Mar 27;284(5754):364-6.

Peanut lectin binding properties of germinal centres of mouse lymphoid tissue.

Rose ML, Birbeck MS, Wallis VJ, Forrester JA, Davies AJ.

Peanut (Arachis hypogaea) lectin (PNL) has been shown to agglutinate the 90% of
cells from murine thymus which are supposed to be immature cortical thymocytes.
Further studies on the numbers of thymocytes binding fluorescein isothiocyanate
conjugated PNL (FITC-PNL) confirmed the large proportion of PNL binding cells. In
other organs such as bone marrow, spleen and peripheral lymph nodes, smaller
proportions of PNL positive cells have been recorded. PNL-positive cells outside 
the thymus have been reported to be either Thy 1-positive or null cells. It has
also been suggested that PNL binding may be a marker for immaturity not only in
relation to T lymphocytes but also amongst haematopoietic stem cells. Thus PNL
binding as an aspect of lymphocyte differentiation is a matter of considerable
interest. The current study describes the distribution of horseradish
peroxidase-conjugated PNL (HRP-PNL) on frozen sections of mouse lymphoid organs. 
It seems that PNL binds to cells in germinal centres but not to those in some
other areas containing activated lymphocytes. There is good correlation between
the presence of PNL-binding germinal centres in frozen sections of lymphoid
organs and the number of PNL-binding cells counted in cell suspensions from the
same organs.


PMID: 7360273  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Nature. 1980 Mar 27;284(5754):363-4.

Distribution of membrane anionic sites on B16 melanoma variants with differing
lung colonising potential.

Raz A, Bucana C, McLellan W, Fidler IJ.

The interaction of metastatic cells with their environment is mediated to a large
extent by the cell surface. Although several biochemical differences between
tumour cells with low or high metastatic potentials have been reported, the
specific surface characteristics associated with metastasis have not yet been
identified. One distinctive feature of murine B16 melanoma variants with low
(B16-F1, B16-F10Lr) or high (B16-F10) lung colonisation potentials is their
propensity to aggregate in vitro with other tumour cells (homotypic clumping), or
with host cells (heterotypic clumping). The initial sites for membrane-membrane
recognition, contact and subsequent interaction are thought to be associated with
dense membrane anionic sites. In the experiments reported here we determined that
the distribution of cell-surface dense anionic sites, examined ultrastructurally 
with the use of cationised ferritin (CF), is correlated with tumour cell
aggregation in vitro and/or production of pulmonary tumour colonies following
intravenous (i.v.) injection into syngeneic recipients.


PMID: 7360272  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Nature. 1980 Mar 27;284(5754):353-5.

Changes in composition and activity of microtubule-associated proteins during
brain development.

Mareck A, Fellous A, Francon J, Nunez J.

The onsert of neuronal differentiation is characterised by intensive neurite
growth; because microtubule formation is strictly required during this process,
in vitro assembly of the tubulin present in the rat brain has been studied at
different stages of development: the rate of assembly is very slow in the early
stages and increases progressively with age from birth until adulthood. Other
data also suggested that the limiting factor in the young brain is the amount or 
activity of one or several of the minor components which co-polymerise into
microtubules with tubulin. We show here that both the composition and the
activity of the microtubule-associated proteins change during the time course of 
rat brain development.


PMID: 7360270  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Nature. 1980 Mar 27;284(5754):342-3.

Luteinising hormone-releasing and anti-fertility properties of a
glucagon-selective somatostatin analogue.

Bex FJ, Corbin A, Sarantakis D, Lien E.

The hypothalamic tetradecapeptide, somatostatin (SRIF), inhibits the secretion of
growth hormone (GH) and numerous other hormones, including insulin and glucagon. 
Attempts to use SRIF as an adjunct in the treatment of diabetes mellitus met with
limited success due to its short biological half-life and the undesirable
diabetogenic activity of its insulin-lowering properties. Efforts at synthesis
have yielded SRIF derivatives with prolonged GH-lowering activity which did not
suppress glucagon or had equivalent insulin-inhibiting activity as well as
several short-acting compounds with the appropriate glucagon specificity. A
dodecapeptide analogue [des-Ala, Gly] His-D-Trp-SRIF (Wy-41, 747) has been
identified that combines selective inhibition of GH and glucagon release with
prolonged activity. However, in routine pharmacological tests chronic treatment
of mature rats with Wy-41, 747 produced anti-reproductive effects resembling
those described for luteinising hormone (LH)-releasing hormone (RH) and its
agonists. We report here that Wy-41, 747, unlike SRIF and other of its analogues 
tested, releases LH, induces ovulation and inhibits pregnancy when administered
before or after implantation; these properties are traditionally associated with 
the separate LH-releasing class of peptides.


PMID: 6987534  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Nature. 1980 Mar 27;284(5754):316-20.

Synthesis in E. coli of a polypeptide with human leukocyte interferon activity.

Nagata S, Taira H, Hall A, Johnsrud L, Streuli M, Ecsödi J, Boll W, Cantell K,
Weissmann C.

Double-stranded cDNA prepared from the 12S fraction of poly(A) RNA from
interferon (IF)-producing human leukocytes was cloned in Escherichia coli using
the pBR322 vector. One of the resulting clones had a 910-base pair insert which
could hybridise to IF mRNA and was responsible for the production of a
polypeptide with biological IF activity. Up to 10,000 units IF activity per g of 
cells was obtained from some clones.


PMID: 6987533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Nature. 1980 Mar 27;284(5754):360-3.

Low intracellular pH and chemical agents slow inactivation gating in sodium
channels of muscle.

Nonner W, Spalding BC, Hille B.

Excitation of nerve or muscle requires an orderly opening and closing of
molecular pores, the ionic channels, in the plasma membrane. During the action
potential, Na channels are opened (activated) by the advancing wave of
depolarisation, contributing a pulse of inward sodium current, and then are
closed again (inactivated) by the continued depolarisation. As one approach both 
to obtaining molecular information on the Na channel and towards further defining
the recently discovered kinetic interactions of the inactivation and activation
gating steps, we have surveyed here the effects of chemical agents reported to
slow or prevent Na channel inactivation. We find that many of the agents studied 
by others on invertebrate giant axons or vertebrate nerve act on our frog
skeletal muscle preparation. In addition, we have discovered that simply lowering
the intracellular pH nearly eliminates inactivation. The activation mechanism
seems to resist modification.


PMID: 6767194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Nature. 1980 Mar 27;284(5754):344-5.

Proposed mechanism of cholinergic action in smooth muscle.

Salmon DM, Honeyman TW.

An increased turnover of phosphatidate and phosphatidyl inositol has been found
in many tissues where hormones or neurotransmitters are postulated to raise Ca2+ 
influx, for example in smooth muscle. However, the relationship between changes
in phospholipid metabolism and changes in Ca2+ permeability was unknown.
Following recent reports on the interactions of Ca2+ with phosphatidic acid in
membranes and artificial systems, we investigated the hypothesis that
phosphatidate accumulation mediates the action of cholinergic and other stimuli
on Ca2+ influx. We report here that synthesis and accumulation of phosphatidate
was accelerated in smooth muscle cells stimulated by carbamylcholine with a
similar time course to that of contraction. This alteration in phosphatidate
metabolism does not seem to result from an increase in intracellular Ca2+ or
depolarisation of the cell membrane. Furthermore, submicromolar concentrations of
phosphatidate rapidly produce contractions of isolated smooth muscle cells. These
results support the contention that cholinergic-induced changes in membrane Ca2+ 
permeability in smooth muscle could be mediated by phosphatidate accumulation.


PMID: 6767193  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Nature. 1980 Mar 27;284(5754):368-70.

Copper metallothionein, a copper-binding protein from Neurospora crassa.

Lerch K.

Copper is an essential constituent of many proteins which participate in
biologically important reactions. In contrast to iron, where different metal
storage and transport proteins have been extensively characterised, the existence
of copper proteins serving such functions is still a matter of controversy.
Studies on the biosynthesis of tyrosinase from Neurospora crassa with respect to 
the copper status of this fungus have shown that this organism accumulates copper
with the concomitant synthesis of a small molecular weight copper-binding
protein. This protein is now shown to have a striking sequence homology to the
zinc- and cadmium-containing metallothioneins from vertebrates. Growth
experiments suggest that this molecule fulfills several important physiological
functions in this organism such as copper storage, copper detoxification and
provision of copper for tyrosinase.


PMID: 6444697  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Nature. 1980 Mar 27;284(5754):358-60.

Glycocalyx is not required for show inward calcium current in isolated rat heart 
myocytes.

Isenberg G, Klöckner U.

The importance of the slow inward calcium current (Isi) in the
excitation-contration coupling process of cardiac muscle is well documented. The 
current can be attributed mainly to a calcium translocation from the
extracellular space into the cell or a subsarcolemmal compartment of it. Isi has 
been suggested to have its source in and to be controlled by the surface coat of 
the sarcolemma (glycocalyx). The glycocalyx is destroyed in myocytes dissociated 
from adult heart tissue with solutions containing low calcium, collagenase and
hyaluronidase (Fig. 1). By comparing the Isi data obtained in isolated myocytes
with those reported for trabeculae or papillary muscles, we have now obtained
evidence suggesting that the glycocalyx is not important in the genesis of Isi.


PMID: 6244505  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Nature. 1980 Mar 27;284(5754):350-1.

Opiate receptors influence vasopressin release from nerve terminals in rat
neurohypophysis.

Iversen LL, Iversen SD, Bloom FE.

A previous report described the existence of substantial amounts of enkephalin
immunoreactivity and the occurrence of nerve terminals containing an
enkephalin-like material in the pars nervosa of rat pituitary. It was suggested
that an enkephalin innervation of the pars nervosa originating from the
magnocellular hypothalamic nuclei might regulate the secretion of
neurohypophyseal hormones. The results of the present studies support this
hypothesis, as we find that a stable enkephalin analogue (D-Ala
2,D-Leu5-enkephalin) inhibits the calcium-dependent release of vasopressin evoked
by electrical stimulation of the rat pituitary stalk in vitro. A similar
inhibition of the stimulus-evoked vasopressin release is caused by morphine and
beta-endorphin, and the inhibitory effects of the enkephalin analogue can be
reversed by naloxone. These findings suggest the possible existence of inhibitory
opiate receptors on the terminals of vasopressin fibres in the pars nervosa.


PMID: 6244503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Nature. 1980 Mar 20;284(5753):283-4.

Mechanism of action of dietary fibre in the human colon.

Stephen AM, Cummings JH.

Fibre, more than any other dietary component, affects human large bowel function,
causing an increase in stool output, dilution of colonic contents, a faster rate 
of passage through the gut and changes in the colonic metabolism of minerals,
nitrogen and bile acids. (Fibre here refers to 'dietary fibre', which comprises
plant cell wall polysaccharides and lignin, and not to 'crude fibre'.) It is
thought that these changes are brought about by fibre passing through the gut
undigested and holding water within its cellular structure. Although the amount
of water taken up in vitro varies for different types of fibre, this does not
correlate in the expected way with the effects these materials have on colonic
function. This is because fibre is extensively degraded in the gut, probably by
the colonic microflora. Using a newly developed method modified from ruminant
nutrition for isolating bacteria, we have shown that the main component of human 
faeces is bacteria. We have shown that the main component of human faeces is
bacteria. We show here that the way in which two contrasting types of dietary
fibre act in the colon depends on the extent to which they are digested. Cabbage 
fibre, which is extensively broken down, provides a readily usable substrate for 
the stimulation of microbial growth, whereas wheat fibre remains largely
undigested and retains water in the gut lumen.


PMID: 7360261  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Nature. 1980 Mar 20;284(5753):264-5.

Axons from CNS neurons regenerate into PNS grafts.

Richardson PM, McGuinness UM, Aguayo AJ.

Axons in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and central nervous system (CNS)
form sprouts after injury. Elongation of regenerating axonal sprouts has been
observed as the exception within the adult mammalian CNS but is the rule in the
PNS of mammals as well as in the CNS of some fish and amphibians. The relative
importance of intrinsic neuronal properties and axonal environment in determining
the extent of axonal regrowth is unknown. Neuroglial cells, nerve growth factor
and target tissues such as smooth muscle are known to influence neuronal
responses to injury. Here we have examined the capacity of transected axons
originating in the CNS to regrow into nerve grafts containing Schwann cells.


PMID: 7360259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Nature. 1980 Mar 20;284(5753):262-4.

Oestrogens regulate divergent effects of prolactin in the ovary.

Veldhuis JD, Hammond JM.

Prolactin exerts well established stimulatory effects both in vitro and in vivo
in the rat ovary. However, in the ovary of higher mammals, prolactin action is
not well characterised, and may differ from that observed in rodents. For
example, in human clinical conditions of physiological or pathological prolactin 
excess, ovarian function is depressed, and in isolated, human granulosa cells in 
vitro, prolactin seems to inhibit progesterone production. To examine direct
prolactin effects in the higher mammalian ovary, we have used an in vitro porcine
granulosa-cell model. In this system, prolactin action is bipotential, depending 
critically on the degree of granulosa-cell differentiation attained in vivo.
Prolactin suppresses steroid production by cultured granulosa cells isolated from
small (1-2 mm), immature follicles, but stimulates progesterone secretion by
granulosa cells collected from large (greater than 6 mm) mature follicles. The
present studies show that oestrogens may play an important part in regulating
these divergent actions of prolactin in the ovary.


PMID: 7360258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Nature. 1980 Mar 20;284(5753):258-9.

Young kittens can learn complex visual pattern discriminations.

Wilkinson F, Dodwell PC.

Kittens begin to display visually elicited responses shortly after eye opening.
The pupillary reflex, optokinetic response, visual placing and avoidance of the
deep side of the visual cliff all appear between the second and fifth weeks of
life, and evidence of visual learning in homing behaviour has been described at
the same early age. However, an attempt to elicit pattern preferences in kittens 
of this age (usually considered the easiest way to demonstrate discriminatory
behaviour in immature organisms) was unsuccessful, evidently because such kittens
show little spontaneous visual interest. This is surprising in view of
electrophysiological findings which emphasise the importance of the fourth to
sixth weeks in the development of cortical feature-analysing mechanisms; perhaps 
the stimulus-seeking methodology of Dodwell et al. is anappropriate for the
visual modality at such an early age. Recently, visual acuity measurements have
been reported for kittens as young as 30 d of age using a contour versus
no-contour discrimination on a modified Lashley jumping stand. With this
technique we have now trained kittens of under 50 d of age to perform more
complex pattern discriminations.


PMID: 7360257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Nature. 1980 Mar 20;284(5753):257.

Illusory reversal of extrafoveally perceived displacement.

MacKay DM.

It has long been known that the temporal characteristics of human peripheral
vision differ markedly from those of foveal vision. Slowly moving peripheral
stimuli, for example, can give rise to dramatically exaggerated estimates of
their displacement. More recently, Thorson et al. have shown that where two spots
are flashed in sequence to peripheral vision with an interflash interval of 50
ms, a sensation of movement can be induced even when the spatial separation of
the spots is below the static acuity threshold. These observations fit with
several others, suggesting that the visual system uses separate channels for
signalling 'motion' as distinct from 'change of location', and that in some
circumstances the integration of motion signals may make a dominant contribution 
to the perception of displacement. I now report a striking illusion which seems
to reinforce and extend this conclusion.


PMID: 7360256  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Nature. 1980 Mar 20;284(5753):255-7.

Interaction between chemoreceptive modalities of odour and irritation.

Cain WS, Murphy CL.

Inhaled vapours may stimulate both olfactory receptor cells and endings of the
trigeminal nerve. The trigeminal nerve often contributes a pungent, irritating
attribute to odours. Many odorants exhibit some pungency when dilute and most
become pungent when concentrated. Because the trigeminal system commonly shares
the chemosensory burden with olfaction, it is relevant to ask whether these
anatomically distinct systems interact. Two obscure psychophysical observations
argue for an inhibitory influence of trigeminal over olfactory activity. Katz and
Talbert observed that a vapour with both odour and pungency might lose odour at
high concentrations, irritation masking odour. The nineteenth century philosopher
Alexander Bain, nothing that concentrated carbon dioxide (carbonic acid) evokes
pungency, remarked "if a current of carbonic acid accompanies an odour, the
effect (odour) is arrested" (ref. 8). We have taken up Bain's forgotten
observation and used carbon dioxide to endow otherwise benign concentrations of
odorant with varying degrees of pungency. The experiments reported here reveal a 
strong mutual interaction between pungency and odour, occurring without
attenuation even when irritant enters one nostril and odorant the other.


PMID: 7360255  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


541. Nature. 1980 Mar 20;284(5753):234-8.

Chicken lens crystallin DNA sequences show at least two delta-crystallin genes.

Bhat SP, Jones RE, Sullivan MA, Piatigorsky J.

Restriction analysis of chicken DNA using probes derived from a cloned cDNA and
analysis of cloned genomic DNA fragments containing delta-crystallin gene
sequences have indicated the presence of at least two non-allelic genes for
delta-crystallin, the first and principal crystallin synthesised in the embryonic
chicken lens. Electron microscopic analyses of three cloned genomic fragments
revealed that the delta-crystallin mRNA gene sequences are interrupted at least
14 times in one of the delta-crystallin genes.


PMID: 7360254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Nature. 1980 Mar 20;284(5753):273-5.

Lentil lectin effectively induces allotransplantation tolerance in mice.

Hilgert I, Horejsí V, Angelisová P, Kristofová H.

The interaction of lectins with carbohydrate receptors on the plasma membrane of 
eukaryotic cells results in a wide variety of biological effects. One effect
which has been extensively studied is the stimulation of lymphocytes to
blastogenesis and proliferation. High doses of concanavalin A (Con A) and
phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) have been shown to activate in vitro regulatory cells
capable of suppressing proliferation of other cells in the culture. However, Con 
A and PHA treatment were used effectively to prolong the survival of skin and
heart allografts before it was recognised that some lectins have an activatory
effect on suppressor cells in vitro. A possible explanation of these tolerogenic 
effects is the activation of specific suppressor cells. In this letter we have
compared systematically various lectins differing in their carbohydrate
specificity and mitogenicity in relation to their ability to induce prolonged
skin allograft survival in mice with the aim of selecting the most effective
lectin tratment schedule. Some preliminary results of this study have been
mentioned in a recent review.


PMID: 6987530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Nature. 1980 Mar 20;284(5753):238-43.

Contribution of immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable-region genes to antibody
diversity.

Rabbitts TH, Matthyssens G, Hamlyn PH.

A mouse cloned cDNA probe containing a variable (V) region belonging to the VHIII
subgroup has been used in filter hybridisations to estimate the number of
heavy-chain V-genes in this subgroup of mouse and human DNA. There seem to be
about 10 and 20 VH-genes hybridising to this probe in mouse and human DNA,
respectively. Studies of cross-hybridisation of the related VK-genes from MOPC21 
and MPC11 myelomas indicate that the experiments detect all members of the VHIII 
subgroup.


PMID: 6767191  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Nature. 1980 Mar 20;284(5753):281-3.

Inherited defect in a Na+, K-co-transport system in erythrocytes from essential
hypertensive patients.

Garay RP, Dagher G, Pernollet MG, Devynck MA, Meyer P.

The Na+ and K+ electrochemical gradients across cell membranes are believed to be
maintained by the action of a Na+, K+-pump. In human erythrocytes this pump
exchanges internal Na+ for external K+ in approximately a 1.5 ratio. Thus, when
Na+-loaded/K+-depleted erythrocytes are incubated in physiological conditions
they tend to recover their original low Na+/high K+ content. Surprisingly, in
erythrocytes from healthy donors the net Na+ extrusion/K+ influx ratio exceeds
the 1.5 ratio predicted for Na+, K+-pump-mediated fluxes whereas it is similar to
this value in erythrocytes from essential hypertensive patients and some of their
descendants. We now report that this difference is due to the presence of a Na+, 
K+-co-transport system in normal erythrocytes which extrudes both internal Na+
and K+ and is functionally deficient in erythrocytes of essential hypertensive
patients and some of their descendants. No difference in passive Na+ permeability
could be detected between normotoensive and hypertensive subjects.


PMID: 6244501  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Nature. 1980 Mar 20;284(5753):269-71.

Enkephalin-, VIP- and substance P-like immunoreactivity in the carotid body.

Wharton J, Polak JM, Pearse AG, McGregor GP, Bryant MG, Bloom SR, Emson PC,
Bisgard GE, Will JA.

The carotid body type I cell contains amines and has features, both morphological
and cytochemical, which indicate that it may also produce a peptide. Many
regulatory peptides are now known to be present in both central and peripheral
tissues. In the periphery these neuropeptides occur in both classical endocrine
(APUD) cells and the neurones of the autonomic nervous system. We have now
investigated the possible presence of neuropeptides in the cat carotid body using
both immunocytochemistry and radioimmunoassay. Met- and Leu-enkephalin-like
material occurred in considerable quantities in carotid body extracts and
enkephalin-like immunoreactivity was localised in type I cells. Both vasoactive
intestinal polypeptide (VIP)- and substance P-like immunoreactivity was also
present but was localised in nerve fibres distributed throughout the organ. These
active neuropeptides are widely distributed in mammalian tissues, forming a
diffuse regulatory system which now seems to include the carotid body.


PMID: 6153760  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Nature. 1980 Mar 20;284(5753):267-9.

Cycloheximide-sensitive synthesis of substance P by isolated dorsal root ganglia.

Harmar A, Schofield JG, Keen P.

Substance P (Arg-Pro-Lys-Pro-Gln-Gln-Phe-Phe-Gly-Leu-Met-NH2) may be used as a
neurotransmitter by certain primary afferent neurones, particularly those
carrying pain impulses. Substance P-like immunoreactivity has been localised to
the cell bodies of one population of dorsal root ganglion neurones by
immunocytochemistry. It is contained in vesicles in the central terminals of
these neurones, and has also been demonstrated in the peripheral terminals. As
axons and terminals have very little capacity for peptide biosynthesis, it is
possible that substance P is synthesised and packaged in the perikaryon and
transported to the terminals by an axoplasmic transport process. Consistent with 
this is the finding that substance P accumulates proximal to a ligature placed on
the dorsal root. There has, however, been no direct demonstration of the
biosynthesis of substance P in the nervous system. We report here that rat dorsal
root ganglia incorporate 35S-methionine into substance P, characterised as
authentic by immunoprecipitation followed by HPLC. There is a delay of 1-2 h
between addition of label and its incorporation into substance P. Synthesis is
blocked by cycloheximde suggesting that, in dorsal root ganglia, substance P is
synthesised by a conventional ribosomal process. Synthesis of substance P is
reduced by some 90% in ganglia from rats treated neonatally with capsaicin, a
drug which is thought to destroy a population of primary afferent neurones.


PMID: 6153759  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Nature. 1980 Mar 13;284(5752):189-90.

Electron density map of chicken heart cytosol aspartate transaminase at 3.5 A
resolution.

Borisov VV, Borisova SN, Sosfenov NI, Vainshtein BK.

Aspartate transaminase (EC 2.6.1.1., Asp-transaminase) has been studied
extensively, and much is now known about its physico-chemical, catalytic and
other properties. X-ray studies that can provide a structural foundation for the 
events that occur during the transamination reaction are under way on three
species of Asp-transaminase: the cytosolic enzyme from pig and chicken hearts,
and the mitochondrial chicken heart enzyme. We describe here the interpretation
of an electron density map of Asp-transaminase from chicken heart cytosol at 3.5 
A.


PMID: 7360247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Nature. 1980 Mar 13;284(5752):183-5.

The relationship between coding sequences and function in haemoglobin.

Eaton WA.

Gilbert has suggested that the presence of intervening sequences in DNA, called
introns, can speed evolution by allowing novel proteins to be constructed from
the pieces of existing ones. This hypothesis further suggests that the coding
sequences, called exons, correspond to functional parts of the protein. The most 
striking example so far is the case of the immunoglobulin gamma heavy chain,
where the four polypeptide sequences corresponding to the four coding sequences
form structurally and functionally distinct parts of the molecule. The relation
between the three coding sequences of the beta globin gene and structure or
function is not as obvious, but the central coding sequence does code for the
part of the globin chain which forms the haem crevice. To further test the idea
that coding sequences correspond to functional units of proteins we consider the 
relationship between the coding sequences of alpha and beta globin genes and the 
corresponding parts of the complete, tetrameric haemoglobin molecule.


PMID: 7360245  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Nature. 1980 Mar 13;284(5752):173-5.

Host genotype influences immunomodulation by interferon.

De Maeyer E, De Maeyer-Guignard J.

Interferon influences both afferent and efferent pathways of delayed-type
hypersensitivity (DH) in the mouse. In animals previously sensitised to picryl
chloride, sheep red blood cells (SRBC) or Newcastle disease virus (NDV), and
treated with interferon just before challenge with any of these antigens, the
antigen-elicited reaction, as measured by the ear-swelling (picryl chloride) or
footpad swelling (SRBC and NDV) test, is either decreased or completely
inhibited, depending on the dose of interferon administered. In addition to this 
action on expression of the sensitised state, interferon decreases or inhibits
sensitisation to SRBC or NDV when administered 24 h before immunisation. These
effects were recently confirmed using electrophoretically pure mouse interferon, 
thus ruling out the possibility that they are caused by other proteins present in
the previously used partially purified interferon preparations. For the effect on
sensitisation, the timing of interferon administration is crucial, and when
interferon is administered a few hours after the antigen, sensitisation can
actually be enhanced, as reported here; the enhancement of sensitisation by
interferon is influenced by the dose of antigen and by the genotype of the mice
that are sensitised.


PMID: 7360243  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Nature. 1980 Mar 13;284(5752):168-9.

Anaesthetics increase light emission from aequorin at constant ionised calcium.

Baker PF, Schapira AH.

The isolation by Shimomura, Johnson and Saiga of a protein, aequorin, that emits 
light in the presence of micromolar concentrations of ionised calcium opened up
new possibilities for the study of ionised calcium inside cells. It is a
relatively simple matter to introduce aequorin into large cells by
microinjection, and the rate of light emission gives a direct measure of
intracellular free calcium. During an investigation into the action of certain
anaesthetics on squid axons, we noticed that these agents always increase the
light output from intracellular aequorin. Subsequent analysis has now revealed
that this does not result from a rise in ionised calcium inside the axon but
seems to reflect a direct effect of the anaesthetic agent on the aequorin
molecule. The agents studied all produce greater activation of the light emitting
reaction at a constant level of ionised calcium. These rather simple observations
have several important biological implications: (1) aequorin might be an
interesting model system for studying interaction between anaesthetics and
proteins, (2) other Ca-sensitive proteins might behave like aequorin, their
affinity for calcium being subject to modulation, and (3) such modulation of
endogenous Ca-binding proteins might contribute to the mechanism of anaesthesia.


PMID: 7360242  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Nature. 1980 Mar 13;284(5752):164-5.

Motion smear.

Burr D.

It is well known that the visual system summates signals over time, about 120 ms 
in daylight. Although this summation has the obvious advantage of enhancing
visual sensitivity, it creates the potential problem of motion smear when viewing
moving targets, whose images are also summated over time. Here I report some
measurements which reveal that provided the moving target is exposed for long
enough to elicit a clear sensation of motion, the amount of smear is far less
than may be expected. This suggests that the visual mechanisms which signal
motion are also responsible for signalling a clear unsmeared perception of the
target in motion.


PMID: 7360241  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Nature. 1980 Mar 13;284(5752):140-3.

The use of synchrotron radiation in time-resolved X-ray diffraction studies of
myosin layer-line reflections during muscle contraction.

Huxley HE, Faruqi AR, Bordas J, Koch MH, Milch JR.

Experiments on striated muscle have been carried out at the EMBL Outstation at
DESY, Hamburg, using the electron-positron storage ring DORIS as a high-intensity
X-ray source. The low-angle reflections from the myosin cross-bridges could be
recorded more than 1,000 times more rapidly than with the best conventional X-ray
sources, and could be followed during contraction with a time resolution of 10
ms.


PMID: 7189013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Nature. 1980 Mar 13;284(5752):185-7.

Isolation of chromosomal origins of replication in yeast.

Beach D, Piper M, Shall S.

Origins of replication have been identified in the DNA of viruses, mitochondria, 
bacterial plasmids and the bacterial chromosome. However, origins of replication 
of eukaryote chromosomes have remained elusive because of the large size and
sequence complexity of chromosomes and in particular for want of a suitable assay
for their detection. Recent development of techniques for genetic transformation 
of yeast by autonomously replicating cytoplasmic plasmids now makes it possible
to search for eukaryote origins in a manner analogous to that used for bacteria. 
Here we describe the construction and properties of a plasmid which contains no
effective eukaryote replication origin and whose efficiency of replication in
yeast is greatly enhanced by insertion of certain fragments of yeast chromosomal 
DNA. We believe these to contain replication origins, since yeast transformants
are shown to contain copies of the transforming plasmids.


PMID: 6987527  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Nature. 1980 Mar 13;284(5752):143-8.

Order and intracellular location of the events involved in the maturation of a
spliced tRNA.

Melton DA, De Robertis EM, Cortese R.

Microinjected frog oocytes were used to analyse the RNA processing steps which
lead to the appearance of a mature cytoplasmic tRNAtyr molecule. The results show
that removal of the intervening sequence from within a yeast tRNAtyr precursor,
excision of extra 3' and 5' nucleotides, addition of a 3'-terminal CCA and
modification of at least seven ribonucleotides all occur in the nucleus before
the tRNAtyr is transported to the cytoplasm. Moreover, we find that the
ribonucleotide modifications occur in a strict order which precisely correlates
with the size alterations of the tRNAtyr precursor.


PMID: 6987526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Nature. 1980 Mar 13;284(5752):177-9.

Lymphocyte differentiation and major histocompatibility complex antigen
expression in the embryonic thymus.

Jenkinson EJ, Owen JJ, Aspinall R.

During embryogenesis, stem cells migrate from the bloodstream into the thymic
rudiment where they proliferate and differentiate into T lymphocytes. The
epithelial cells of the thymic stroma may influence these processes by providing 
hormonal and/or contact stimuli to the developing lymphoblasts. Recently, it has 
been shown that T cells 'learn' to recognise the major histocompatability complex
(MHC) antigens during thymic lymphopoiesis and become MHC-restricted. Their
subsequent response to other antigens can only occur in the context of MHC
antigens of the haplotype encountered in the thymus. Little is known, however, of
antigen expression on the thymic stroma which may provide the reference framework
on which this MHC restriction is based. In this study we use monoclonal
antibodies to show that antigens of the K and I regions of the MHC are detectable
on cells of the embryonic mouse thymic stroma from around the 14th day of
gestation, just when lymphocyte differentiation is commencing. Furthermore,
I-region antigen (Ia antigen) expression is probably limited to thymic epithelium
at this stage of gestation and we have not detected Ia on other epithelial
tissues of the pharyngeal complex. This pattern of expression is consistent with 
a role for the thymic stroma in MHC restriction, perhaps by the selection of
lymphoid cells for survival on the basis of their recognition of stromal MHC
determinants.


PMID: 6965768  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Nature. 1980 Mar 13;284(5752):179-81.

V-J joining of immunoglobulin kappa genes only occurs on one homologous
chromosome.

Joho R, Weissman IL.

In general, heterozygous animal cells express both alleles at a particular locus.
The only exceptions are cells of XX genotype after inactivation of one X
chromosome, and immunoglobulin-producing cells; in each case only one of the two 
alleles is expressed in differentiated cells and their progeny. This phenomenon, 
termed allelic exclusion, has been described for several mammalian species
including man and mouse. It has been shown that the variable (V) and constant (C)
region genes of immunoglobulins undergo a rearrangement during ontogeny. We
wished to test whether allelic exclusion in B cells could be the consequence of
V- and C-region rearrangement on one of the two homologous chromosomes only. For 
that reason we chose to analyse the rearrangement of immunoglobulin light chain
genes in normal B lymphocytes isolated on the fluorescence-activated cell sorter.
We now present evidence that during normal B-lymphocyte differentiation V-C
rearrangement occurs only on one chromosome.


PMID: 6244500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Nature. 1980 Mar 13;284(5752):176-7.

Herpes simplex virus depresses antibody production by affecting T-cell function.

Pelton BK, Duncan IB, Denman AM.

Many viruses enter lympho-reticular cells during pathogenesis and thereby induce 
immunosuppression, which is of practical importance in that it may be related to 
overall virulence. Immunosuppression may result from a selective infection, as
viruses often show an affinity for different lymphocyte subpopulations:
Epstein-Barr virus, for example, infects only a small percentage of B cells. We
reported previously that herpes simplex virus (HSV) type 1 suppressed the
induction of an antibody response to diphtheria toxoid in cultures of human
tonsil cells, and that this seemed to result from the infection of a small
percentage of T lymphocytes. However, as fully infectious virus was used in these
experiments, it had probably spread from cell to cell in the course of the
culture, so complicating the interpretation of the results. Accordingly, we have 
now reinvestigated the mechanism of immunosuppression using
temperature-sensitivity (ts) mutants which fail to complete their growth cycle in
the conditions selected for antibody synthesis. In this study, mutants tsB, tsD
and tsF, derived from HSV type 1 strain 17, and ts 9, derived from HSV type 2 HG 
52, were used. The results suggest that the immunosuppression is due to the
selective infection by the viruses of helper T cells.


PMID: 6244499  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Nature. 1980 Mar 13;284(5752):171-3.

Tumour promoter uncouples beta-adrenergic receptor from adenyl cyclase in mouse
epidermis.

Garte SJ, Belman S.

Alterations in beta-adrenergic receptor number and function and in the hormonal
responsiveness of adenylate cyclase have been observed in transformed cells, and 
tumours. Phorbol myristate acetate (PMA), a potent tumour promoter in mouse skin,
induces a dramatic loss of epidermal responsiveness to catecholamines in vivo,
although basal levels of cyclic AMP are not affected. In other work we have shown
that PMA treatment does not alter the number or affinity of epidermal
beta-receptors, although accumulation of cyclic AMP in response to isoprenaline
injection is sharply inhibited. Evidence is presented here that PMA exerts this
effect by uncoupling epidermal beta-receptors from adenylate cyclase.


PMID: 6244498  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Nature. 1980 Mar 13;284(5752):170-1.

Potassium channels in nodal and internodal axonal membrane of mammalian
myelinated fibres.

Chiu SY, Ritchie JM.

Horakova et al. were the first to observe that the phase of late outward current 
carried by potassium ions in frog and squid nerve is virtually absent in
voltage-clamped rat nodes of Ranvier. This observation has been recently
confirmed by Chiu et al. in rabbit nodes of Ranvier, suggesting that the nodal
membrane in the mammal generally has few if any potassium channels. The present
voltage-clamp experiments show that large potassium currents can, however, be
produced in normal rabbit nodes of Ranvier by acute treatment designed to loosen 
the myelin from the axonal membrane. From this we conclude that whereas potassium
channels are absent in the mammalian nodal membrane, they are normally present in
the internodal axonal membrane at least in the paranodal region.


PMID: 6244497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Nature. 1980 Mar 6;284(5751):74-6.

Induction of sister chromatid exchanges by BUdR is largely independent of the
BUdR content of DNA.

Davidson RL, Kaufman ER, Dougherty CP, Ouellette AM, DiFolco CM, Latt SA.

The halogenated thymidine (dT) analogue, 5-bromodeoxy-uridine (BUdR), has a
variety of effects on mammalian cells, including toxicity, suppression of
differentiation, and mutagenesis. Although it is generally assumed that the
effects of BUdR are due primarily to its presence in DNA, results from our
laboratory have raised doubts about such assumptions. We have shown, for example,
that BUdR mutagenesis in mammalian cells is determined by the concentration of
BUdR in the medium rather than in DNA, and that mutagenesis can be suppressed by 
deoxycytidine (dC) without changing the amount of BUdR in DNA. BUdR has also been
shown to induce sister chromatid exchanges (SCEs) in mammalian cells. Initial
results suggested that the relationship between BUdR and SCEs might not be
explained by a single factor, and various correlations between BUdR and SCEs have
been proposed. However, the results to date have been inconclusive, because the
experiments did not resolve as independent variables the concentration of BUdR in
the medium and the amount of BUdR incorporated into nuclear DNA. We have now
carried out experiments to resolve these two factors; the results indicate that
the major factor in determining the frequency of SCEs is the concentration of
BUdR in the medium.


PMID: 7354875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Nature. 1980 Mar 6;284(5751):66-7.

Glucagon and glicentin immunoreactivity are topologically segregated in the alpha
granule of the human pancreatic A cell.

Ravazzola M, Orci L.

Glicentin is a 100-amino acid polypeptide purified from the porcine intestine and
containing the immunodeterminants of glucagon. We have previously reported the
presence of glicentin immunoreactivity in the glucagon-containing, specific
secretory granules (alpha granules) of the pancreatic and gastric A cell. With an
improved immunocytochemical probe, the protein A-gold (pAg) technique, we are now
able to show that glucagon and glicentin-like material are topologically
segregated in the alpha granule of the human pancreatic A cell.


PMID: 6986567  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Nature. 1980 Mar 6;284(5751):60-2.

Postsynaptic effects of ethanol at the frog neuromuscular junction.

Bradley RJ, Peper K, Sterz R.

The molecular mode of action of alcohol in the central nervous system (CN) is
unclear. The effects of ethanol on axonal action potentials can only be measured 
at concentrations which are very much higher than those required to produce
central effects. At the frog neuromuscular junction similar concentrations
increase the open time (tau) of the ion channel associated with the nicotinic
acetylcholine (ACh) receptor. We have now investigated the effect of ethanol on
the postsynaptic membrane of the frog neuromuscular junction by measuring
equilibrium dose-response curves for the interaction between the
neuro-transmitter (ACh) and the ACh receptors. Using this system, we found that
ethanol produces significant changes in receptor function. Moreover, we found
that an ethanol concentration which can be physiologically tolerated by man
(0.2%) the dose-response curve is measurably affected.


PMID: 6965526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Nature. 1980 Mar 6;284(5751):55-6.

A new hominid fossil skull (L.H. 18) from the Ngaloba Beds, Laetoli, northern
Tanzania.

Day MH, Leakey MD, Magori C.

In 1976, a fossil hominid skull was recovered from the Ngaloba Beds at Laetoli,
Northern Tanzania; its morphology is discussed here. The discovery of this skull 
is of great interest and importance because of its very substantial presumed
antiquity and its largely anatomically modern morphology. The discovery has
considerable implications for the antiquity and origin of modern Homo sapiens, a 
subject of longstanding interest and one which has gained renewed attention
recently.


PMID: 6766536  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Nature. 1980 Mar 6;284(5751):78-80.

Novel expression-linked copies of the genes for variant surface antigens in
trypanosomes.

Hoeijmakers JH, Frasch AC, Bernards A, Borst P, Cross GA.

Pathogenic African trypanosomes evade the immune system of their mammalian hosts 
by the sequential expression of alternative cell-surface glycoproteins (reviewed 
in refs 1,2). Variant surface glycoproteins (VSGs) purified from cloned variants 
of Trypanosoma brucei have similar molecular weights (about 60,000), but differ
in amino acid composition, N-terminal amino acid sequence and C-terminal
structure. We have cloned DNA complementary to the messenger RNA's for four
immunologically distinct VSGs and hybridised these complementary DNAs (cDNAs)
with restriction digests of T. brucei nuclear DNA, fractionated by gel
electrophoresis and transferred to nitrocellulose strips. Each cDNA recognises a 
unique set of fragments and this basic set is present unaltered in the nuclear
DNAs from the four variants. In addition, each probe recognises an extra fragment
only in nuclear DNA isolated from cells expressing the VSG corresponding to the
cDNA probe. We infer that activation of a VSG gene involves the production of an 
expression-linked copy of that gene.


PMID: 6243753  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Nature. 1980 Mar 6;284(5751):77-8.

Influence of local vascularity on hormone receptors in mammary gland.

Moore BP, Forsyth IA.

Procedures, such as teat removal (thelectomy) or teat duct ligation, which
prevent removal of milk, lead to rapid involution of the lactating mammary gland;
performed unilaterally they have been used previously to study the biochemistry
of involution, enabling a comparison of normal and involuting glands in the same 
animal against the same systematic hormonal environment. Both the protein hormone
prolactin and the steroid hormone oestrogen are of importance in the development 
and function of the mammary gland. In the present experiments, female
Sprague-Dawley rats were unilaterally thelectomised and the binding to the
mammary gland of prolactin and oestrogen was examined through pregnancy,
lactation and weaning. There was an effect of thelectomy during lactation only,
when levels of both receptors increased in the intact lactating gland but failed 
to rise in the thelectomised, involuting gland. Capillary closure is known to
occur in the mammary glands of rats after 36-48 h of milk accumulation. The rate 
of delivery of hormones to the tissue will be drastically reduced and it is
concluded that this, rather than systemic hormone levels, is of importance in
controlling receptor levels.


PMID: 6243752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Nature. 1980 Mar 6;284(5751):26-32.

Sequence of the human insulin gene.

Bell GI, Pictet RL, Rutter WJ, Cordell B, Tischer E, Goodman HM.

The human insulin gene contains two intervening sequences, one is within the
region transcribed into the 5'-untranslated segment of the mRNA and the other
interrupts the C-peptide encoding region. A comparison of the human with the rat 
insulin genes indicates potential regulatory regions in the DNA segment preceding
the gene and suggests that the ancestral form of the insulin gene had two
intervening sequences.


PMID: 6243748  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Nature. 1980 Mar 6;284(5751):33-8.

Neural regulation of pancreatic hormone secretion by the C-terminal tetrapeptide 
of CCK.

Rehfeld JF, Larsson LI, Goltermann NR, Schwartz TW, Holst JJ, Jensen SL, Morley
JS.

In pancreatic islets a peptide corresponding to the C-terminal tetrapeptide amide
of cholecystokinin and gastrin, Trp-Met-Asp-Phe-NH2, is present in nerve
terminals. This tetrapeptide amide is uniquely potent as a releaser of insulin
and the other islet hormones, whereas larger cholecystokinins and gastrins as
well as tetrapeptide analogues are considerably less potent. We suggest that
neural release of the tetrapeptide amide is implicated in regulation of
pancreatic hormone secretion.


PMID: 6101907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Nature. 1980 Mar 6;284(5751):17-22.

The role of hormone receptors and GTP-regulatory proteins in membrane
transduction.

Rodbell M.

Cell membrane receptors for hormones and neurotransmitters form oligomeric
complexes with GTP-regulatory proteins and inhibit the latter from reacting with 
GTP. Hormones and neurotransmitters act by releasing the inhibitory constraints
imposed by the receptors, thus allowing the GTP-regulatory proteins to interact
with and control the activity of enzymes such as adenylate cyclase. This theory
may apply generally to membrane signal transduction involving surface receptors.


PMID: 6101906  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Nature. 1980 Feb 28;283(5750):868-9.

Hyperpolarisation of rat peritoneal macrophages phagocytosing latex particles.

Kouri J, Noa M, Diaz B, Niubo E.

The changes that take place in the plasma membrane during endocytosis are still
poorly understood. Studies of the electrical properties and related
permeabilities of cells during pinocytosis and phagocytosis should provide
insight into these changes. This approach has not been much exploited, although
there have been a few relevant reports. For example, induction of pinocytosis in 
amoebae produces a marked decrease in plasma membrane resistance, and exposure of
polymorphonuclear leukocytes to phagocytosable particles can engender alterations
in ionic permeabilities. The present report demonstrates that the induction of
phagocytosis in rat peritoneal macrophages is accompanied by a sustained
hyperpolarisation of the cells.


PMID: 7360232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Nature. 1980 Feb 28;283(5750):860-1.

Photoreceptor signals at visual threshold.

Dvorak CA, Granda AM, Maxwell JH.

Electrical responses of cone photoreceptors in the retina of the freshwater
turtle have been characterised for flashes and steps of light in darkness and in 
the presence of background light. These intracellular measurements have been
combined with the behavioural increment threshold curve to yield an estimate of
5-10 muV for the signal developed in a cone when the turtle can just detect an
increment flash. The signal developed when the cones under the stimulus image are
dark-adapted is of interest, for its measurement would help to explain how known 
physiological processes subserve visual detection for a variety of photic
conditions. The effective quantal absorption of dark-adapted, red-sensitive cones
of Pseudemys scripta elegans for a stimulus that the turtle can just detect is
reported here. By combining this result with previous electrical measurements on 
red-sensitive cones of this species, an estimate of 35-70 muV is obtained for the
signal developed in a dark-adapted cone at behavioural threshold. This larger
signal required for detection of a flash in darkness is of particular interest in
view of the recent observation that the intrinsic noise of turtle cones in
darkness is larger than that of illuminated cones.


PMID: 7360231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Nature. 1980 Feb 28;283(5750):859-60.

Reversible events in the transduction process of photoreceptors.

Hamdorf K, Kirschfeld K.

In photoreceptors, a latency of many milliseconds elapses between the absorption 
of a light quantum and the occurrence of the late receptor potential, even for
strong light stimuli. Surprisingly, this is much longer than the time necessary
for conductance changes such as occur in membranes of neurones or muscles,
mediated by chemical transmitters. There are several possible explanations for
the long photoreceptor latency. (1) It may be due to properties of the visual
pigment molecules. For instance, the temporal coincidence of the occurrence of
metarhodospin II with the receptor signal indicates that the meta I-meta II
transition might be the trigger for the electrical response in vertebrate
photoreception. (2) It may be explained by properties of transport processes.
Such a time consuming process could be the diffusion of an internal 'transmitter 
substance', which diffuses to a 'pore' in the receptor membrane. (3) A third
possibility is the time needed to produce and accumulate chemical substances. The
light-induced change of the visual pigment molecule might trigger a chemical
reaction chain, in which the product of an earlier step triggers the next one.
The experiments described here show that a considerable part of the long latency 
in photoreception is due to processes that are localised at the level of the
visual pigment molecule.


PMID: 7360230  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Nature. 1980 Feb 28;283(5750):855-7.

Genetic heterozygosity in a natural population of Mus musculus assessed using
two-dimensional electrophoresis.

Racine RR, Langley CH.

Since the introduction of gel electrophoresis to population genetics, estimates
of genic heterozygosity at allozyme loci have been made for many organisms.
However, attempts to extend the range of proteins surveyed have been hampered by 
concern that there may have been bias in the loci sampled: nearly all proteins
for which population data are available are soluble in low-salt extracts and most
are enzymes belonging to particular groups such as the nonspecific esterases and 
phosphatases, various dehydrogenases and the enzymes of the glycolytic pathways
and the citric acid cycle. Until recently, there were no techniques for
estimating protein variation which were without such bias. Two-dimensional gel
electrophoresis, however, offered hope of overcoming this bias, and it has proved
useful for the resolution of proteins in crude homogenates and for estimating
genetic variation. We have examined heterozygosity in a wild population of the
house mouse (Mus musculus) by means of two-dimensional electrophoresis of whole
kidney. As we report here, the observed level (2%) is substantially below the
level detected by starch gel electrophoresis. Our results corroborate similar
differences observed in Drosophila and man.


PMID: 7360229  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Nature. 1980 Feb 28;283(5750):832-4.

Beta-chain contact sites in the haemoglobin S polymer.

Nagel RL, Johnson J, Bookchin RM, Garel MC, Rosa J, Schiliro G, Wajcman H, Labie 
D, Moo-Penn W, Castro O.

The amino acid residues involved in the areas of contact that stabilise the
haemoglobin S polymer fibre seem to be the same ones that stabilise the basic
unit of the deoxyhaemoglobin S crystal: the Wishner-Love double strand. The
haemoglobin S fibre is probably formed by a unique packing of these double
strands.


PMID: 7360228  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Nature. 1980 Feb 28;283(5750):857-8.

Identification of specific leech neurones immunoreactive to enkephalin.

Zipser B.

The small endogenous peptides, Met- and Leu-enkephalin, bind to the same specific
receptors as opiate analgesics. They, and the larger endorphin peptides, have
been widely found in mammals, where they seem to have a significant role in
neuronal pathways mediating pain and emotional behaviour. Only recently has
enkephalin-like activity been identified in an invertebrate, the earthworm,
although there is some preliminary evidence for opiate receptors in a marine
mollusc. Here I report the detection, by an immunocytochemical technique, of an
enkephalin-like moiety which is localised in one of the 400 cells of each
posterior midbody ganglion of the leech. The presence of enkephalin-like activity
in an identifiable easily accessible neurone of a well characterised nervous
system such as that of the leech could greatly facilitate elucidation of its
mechanism of action.


PMID: 6987525  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Nature. 1980 Feb 28;283(5750):835-40.

Abnormal expression of chromosomal rabbit beta-globin gene in Saccharomyces
cerevisiae.

Beggs JD, van den Berg J, van Ooyen A, Weissmann C.

A 5.1 kilobase-pair segment of rabbit chromosomal beta-globin DNA was joined to
pJDB219, a plasmid consisting of pMB9, the 2-mu yeast plasmid and the yeast leu-2
gene. Saccharomyces cerevisiae transformed with the globin DNA-containing hybrid 
produced beta-globin-specific RNA. As compared to mature beta-globin mRNA, these 
transcripts lacked 20-40 nucleotides from the 5' end, contained all of the small 
intron and extended to about the middle of the large intron. Thus, no splicing of
the primary beta-globin transcript could be detected in the yeast cells.


PMID: 6987524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Nature. 1980 Feb 28;283(5750):865-7.

HLA-restricted T-cell recognition of Epstein-Barr virus-infected B cells.

Rickinson AB, Wallace LE, Epstein MA.

In mice the cytotoxic T-cell response to several types of virus is influenced by 
genes within the major histocompatibility complex; in particular, genetic control
is exercised at the effector cell level through a requirement that virus-specific
cytotoxic T cells recognise viral antigens in association with H-2K and H=2D
region gene products on the surface of infected cells. In man the restriction
which the analogous HLA-A, -B and -C-region gene products might place on
virus-specific T-cell function is still in dispute. The earliest and most
controversial evidence concerns the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), a B lymphotropic
agent which causes infectious mononucleosis (IM) and which induces an unusually
vigorous T-cell response; cytotoxic T cells from IM patients' blood were shown to
be EBV-specific yet, in contrast to mouse systems, apparently free of any obvious
HLA restriction. Since then T-cell recognition of EBV-infected B cells has
assumed particular significance as a model system for the study of cytotoxic
T-cell function in man. This report describes the results of a new approach
clearly indicating that HLA-A and -B region products do indeed have a role in
this system.


PMID: 6244495  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Nature. 1980 Feb 28;283(5750):863-5.

Lactogenic receptor regulation in hormone-stimulated steroidogenic cells.

Davies TF, Katikineni M, Chan V, Harwood JP, Dufau ML, Catt KJ.

Receptor sites for lactogenic hormones such as prolactin (PRL), human growth
hormone (HGH), and placental lactogens, are widely distributed in mammalian
tissues, including mammary glands, steroid-secreting cells of the adrenal,
testis, and ovary, and target cells of steroid hormone action such as liver,
prostrate, and kidney. Although the biological functions of lactogen binding
sites remain uncertain, a relationship between prolactin and lipoprotein
metabolism is implied by the occurrence of prolactin receptors in steroidogenic
cells of the gonads and adrenal, and by the ability of prolactin to increase
esterified cholesterol in the testis. Recently, loss of testicular prolactin
receptors has been observed following elevation of circulating luteinising
hormone (LH) concentrations by the gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) and its 
agonist analogues. The hormone dependence of lactogen receptor sites in
steroid-secreting cells was further analysed in rat testis, ovary, and adrenal
glands after treatment with the respective trophic hormones, gonadotropin and
ACTH. In each of these tissues, rapid and transient loss of lactogen receptors
was observed after trophic hormone stimulation. These findings indicate that
increased turnover of lactogen receptors is an important component of the
target-cell response, and suggest that prolactin receptors might be involved in
the transport of lipoprotein precursors for steroid biosynthesis.


PMID: 6244494  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Nature. 1980 Feb 28;283(5750):826-31.

Abelson murine leukaemia virus protein is phosphorylated in vitro to form
phosphotyrosine.

Witte ON, Dasgupta A, Baltimore D.

The Abelson murine leukaemia virus protein (P120) can become phosphorylated in
vitro by [gamma-32P]ATP. The protein has been purified from cell membranes to the
point that in specific conditions virtually all of the incorporated 32P is in
P120. The reaction is stimulated by Mn2+ and Mg2+ but not Ca2+ and is very rapid 
even at 0 degrees C. The phosphate is linked to P120 at tyrosine, a linkage not
previously reported for a phosphorylation reaction. Phosphorylation may be
involved in the transforming activity of viruses that cause leukaemia as well as 
sarcomas.


PMID: 6244493  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Nature. 1980 Feb 21;283(5749):781-2.

Vitamin B12 synthesis by human small intestinal bacteria.

Albert MJ, Mathan VI, Baker SJ.

In man, physiological amounts of vitamin B12 (cyanocobalamin) are absorbed by the
intrinsic factor mediated mechanism exclusively in the ileum. Human faeces
contain appreciable quantities of vitamin B12 or vitamin B12-like material
presumably produced by bacteria in the colon, but this is unavailable to the
non-coprophagic individual. However, the human small intestine also often
harbours a considerable microflora and this is even more extensive in apparently 
healthy southern Indian subjects. We now show that at least two groups of
organisms in the small bowel, Pseudomonas and Klebsiella sp., may synthesise
significant amounts of the vitamin.


PMID: 7354869  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Nature. 1980 Feb 21;283(5749):776-8.

X-ray induced in vitro neoplastic transformation of human diploid cells.

Borek C.

Techniques have recently been developed to identify and score quantitatively
neoplastic transformation caused by X rays in cultured cells derived from
rodents. Because of their relevance to estimates of human cancer risk, it is
clearly desirable to carry out similar experiments with cultured cells of human
origin. The present report describes for the first time the neoplastic
transformation in vitro of human diploid cells by X-ray irradiation into cells
which can progress in vitro into advanced stages of neoplastic development,
namely, to form colonies in agar and give rise to tumours when injected into nude
mice.


PMID: 7354868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Nature. 1980 Feb 21;283(5749):774-6.

Black widow spider toxin-induced calcium fluxes and transmitter release in a
neurosecretory cell line.

Grasso A, Alemà S, Rufini S, Senni MI.

Several polypeptide neurotoxins affect presynaptic functions by interfering with 
chemical neurotransmission. This group of toxins includes botulinum toxin,
tetanus toxin, beta-bungaro-toxin and black widow spider toxin (BWSTx). While the
effect of the first three toxins is mainly a rapid and severe block of
neurotransmitter release, BWSTx affects transmission by a massive stimulation of 
mediator release. Despite various hypotheses put forward to explain the action of
BWSTx at the level of nerve terminals, there is still a considerable degree of
uncertainty as to the cation dependence of venom action. Study of the toxin mode 
of action at the biochamical level has been hampered by the complexity and
cellular heterogeneity of the preparations used, neuromuscular junction or
synaptosomes. PC12 cell line, derived from a rat phaeochromocytoma, seems to be
an excellent model in view of its property of synthesising and storing
noradrenaline, dopamine and acetylcholine, and releasing them in depolarising
conditions. We have recently shown that highly purified BWSTx stimulates
secretion from PC12 cells of previously taken up radioactive dopamine (DA) and
noradrenaline (NA) (ref. 14 and manuscript in preparation). We report here that
the earliest detectable event after toxin treatment of such cells is a massive
increase of cytosolic calcium.


PMID: 7354867  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Nature. 1980 Feb 21;283(5749):770-2.

Dopamine depolarisation of mammalian primary afferent neurones.

Gallagher JP, Inokuchi H, Shinnick-Gallagher P.

Dopamine (DA) is an important neurotransmitter or neuromodulator in the mammalian
nervous system. As such, it is implicated in the aetiology and therapy of various
disease conditions--for example, Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, Huntington's
disease and tardive dyskinesia. However, only limited electrophysiological
information is presently available concerning dopamine receptors in the mammalian
nervous system, and there are only three reports in which intracellular
techniques have successfully recorded the action of DA on individual central
neurones. In all cases, DA depolarised the respective neurones. In the periphery,
DA is reported to hyperpolarise superior cervical ganglia. However, this
hyperpolarisation has been shown to be due to activation of alpha-adrenoreceptors
and not to a response of DA on a DA receptor. Peripheral DA actions have also
been described presynaptically, but are difficult to study electrophysiologically
for technical reasons. As a result, little is known at the membrane level about
the effects of drugs thought to modulate or interact with DA receptors. In the
present report, we describe a depolarising action for DA on the cat dorsal root
ganglion.


PMID: 7354866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Nature. 1980 Feb 21;283(5749):743-5.

Left-handed DNA helices.

Arnott S, Chandrasekaran R, Birdsall DL, Leslie AG, Ratliff RL.

The synthetic DNA polymerpoly d(GC) . poly d(GC) has been studied by X-ray
diffraction of orientated fibres in which it has either the well known (A or B)
randed conformations have been observed with poly d(AC) . poly d(GT) and with
poly d(As4T) . poly d(As4T), demonstrating that the novel structure is accessible
to any DNA segment with an alternating purine-pyrimidine base sequence.


PMID: 7354864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Nature. 1980 Feb 21;283(5749):780-1.

Selective reconstitution of nude mice with long-term cultured and cloned specific
helper T cells.

Tees R, Schreier MH.

An antibody response is the end result of complex interactions among T cells,
adherent cells and B cells. An understanding of the interactions involved has
proved difficult as pure populations of these cells have not been available. By
making use of T-cell growth factor, we were able to grow normal helper T cells
specific for heterologous erythrocytes. Because specificity and mechanism of
action of these cells had been demonstrated solely in culture, we sought to
establish their competence in the whole animal. We have therefore examined here
whether antigen-specific helper T cells, maintained in culture over long periods,
would enable syngeneic nude mice to respond to T-cell dependent antigens. The
results show that specific helper T cells, propagated in serum-free medium in
vitro for up to 15 months, can selectively and specifically reconstitute
syngeneic C57BL/6J nu/nu mice. Depending on the specificity of the injected
helper T cells, such nude mice could respond to sheep red blood cells (SRC) but
not to horse red blood cells (HRC) and vice versa. The magnitude of the response 
was comparable to that of normal mice and could exceed it by almost 10-fold,
depending on the source and number of injected helper T cells.


PMID: 6965525  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Nature. 1980 Feb 21;283(5749):764-5.

Ca2+-dependent hormonal stimulation of ciliary activity.

Verdugo P.

It has been demonstrated that calcium modulates ciliary activity in protozoa and 
also in epithelial cilia of the mussel gill. Changes in the frequency of ciliary 
beat in the oviduct of the salamander have also been associated with movement of 
Ca2 across the cell membrane. However, the control of ciliary activity in mammals
is poorly understood and the function of calcium in mammalian cilia and its role 
in coupling hormonal effects to changes in ciliary activity have been only
preliminarily investigated. The evidence presented here suggests that the
stimulus-response coupling of the stimulating effect of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2)
on ciliary activity of the rabbit oviduct is carried out by release of
intracellular Ca2+.


PMID: 6766533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Nature. 1980 Feb 21;283(5749):733-9.

An immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene is formed by at least two recombinational
events.

Davis MM, Calame K, Early PW, Livant DL, Joho R, Weissman IL, Hood L.

The events of B-cell differentiation can be reconstructed in part through an
analysis of the organisation of heavy-chain gene segments in differentiated B
cells. A mouse immunoglobulin alpha heavy-chain gene is composed of at least
three noncontiguous germ-line DNA segments--a VH gene segment, a JH gene segment 
associated with the Cmu gene segment, and the C alpha gene segment. These gene
segments are joined together by two distinct types of DNA rearrangements--a V-J
joining and a CH switch.


PMID: 6766532  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Nature. 1980 Feb 21;283(5749):792-4.

Recovery frequency of phages lambda and M13 from human and animal faeces.

Schluederberg SA, Marshall B, Tachibana C, Levy SB.

Derivatives of bacteriophages lambda and M13 are in common use as vectors in
recombinant DNA RESEARCH. These laboratory-derived phages have been designed to
allow cloning of DNA fragments, but to be unable to survive outside a defined
laboratory and/or host-cell environment. To assess the availability of wild-type 
lambda or M13 phages in the environment which might potentially rescue
debilitated derivative phages, we have now examined the frequency of these and
other bacteriophages in human and animal faeces. We detected coliphage in over
two-thirds of the faecal samples. Of these, 1.2% of the samples contained
lambda-like phage and 3.5% had phage indistinguishable from M13.


PMID: 6444456  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Nature. 1980 Feb 21;283(5749):767-8.

Evidence for two populations of excitatory receptors for noradrenaline on
arteriolar smooth muscle.

Hirst GD, Neild TO.

We have recorded the responses of arteriolar smooth muscle cells to
iontophoretically applied noradrenaline. Records of both muscle movement and
muscle membrane potential were made. We found that two distinct types of response
could be detected, depending on the position of the noradrenaline micropipette.
One type of response consisted of a localised constriction near the noradrenaline
source: this effect could be abolished by the alpha-antagonist phentolamine and
was not associated with a change in arteriolar membrane potential. The other type
of response was a depolarisation similar to the excitatory junction potentials
(e.j.ps) produced by sumpathetic nerve stimulation. These observations suggest
that there are two populations of receptors for noradrenaline on arterioles, and 
could explain the paradoxical failure of alpha-antagonists to block neuromuscular
transmission at some sutonomic end organs such as the vas deferens, arteries and 
arterioles.


PMID: 6243746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Nature. 1980 Feb 14;283(5748):693-4.

Sequence of a ribosomal RNA gene intron from Tetrahymena.

Wild MA, Sommer R.

Recently, several genes coding for messenger RNA, transfer RNA and ribosomal RNA 
in eukaryotes have been found to be interrupted in their coding regions by DNA
sequences which are not represented in the mature RNA transcripts (see ref. 1 for
review). Many of these intervening sequences, or introns, are now known to be
transcribed in the precursor RNA, from which they are subsequently processed out 
to form the mature RNA. As the intron-exon junctions must in some way be
recognised for accurate splicing, the nucleotide sequences of these regions from 
a number of protein-coding and tRNA genes have been analysed. Sequence homologies
were found at the splice points of the protein-coding gene introns from diverse
organisms, but the tRNA intron boundaries were not similar to these. This has led
to the speculation that different splicing activities are necessary for the
processing of introns in mRNA and tRNA precursors. We report here the sequence of
a ribosomal RNA gene intron from Tetrahymena in which intron-exon junctions
differ from those analysed to date.


PMID: 7354863  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Nature. 1980 Feb 14;283(5748):691-3.

X-ray structure of the ternary complex Zn(II)-ATP-2,2'-bipyridyl and possible
model for ATP transport.

Orioli P, Cini R, Donati D, Mangani S.

Ternary complexes between metal ions, nucleotides and aromatic heterocyclic
amines are being investigated by X-ray diffraction as possible models for
enzyme-metal-substrate interactions. Kennard and coworkers have reported the
crystal structure of the ATP disodium salt. Although more recently several
crystal structures of binary and ternary complexes between metal ions and
nucleoside monophosphates have been reported, no structure combining metal
complexes with nucleoside di- or triphosphates has been reported. Most divalent
metal ions catalyse the nonenzymatic transfer of phosphate from nucleoside
polyphosphates to various acceptors. Therefore, these compounds in water solution
undergo extensive hydrolysis in the presence of metal ions, leading to the
formation of the monophosphates; for instance, at pH 6.5, Cu2+ accelerates the
hydrolysis of ATP by a factor of about 300 (ref. 5). We report here the crystal
and molecular structure of the complex [Zn(II)-H2ATP-2,2'-bipyridyl]2.4H2O,
determined by single crystal X-ray analysis. The complex molecule provides a
possible model for ATP transport and phosphate group transfer mechanism.


PMID: 7354862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Nature. 1980 Feb 14;283(5748):683-6.

The beta-globin gene is on the short arm of human chromosome 11.

Sanders-Haigh L, Anderson WF, Francke U.

Investigations on the regulation of human globin gene expression are assisted by 
a knowledge of the chromosomal location of the globin genes. Previous studies
have mapped the alpha-globin locus to human chromosome (HC) 16, and have shown
that the human globin gene complex gamma-delta-beta co-segregates with lactate
dehydrogenase A (LDH-A) and the presence of HC 11 in somatic cell hybrids.
Radioactively labelled globin complementary DNA (cDNA) probes were used in
molecular hybridisation experiments to determine the chromosomal locations of the
alpha- and beta-globin genes. When human x rodent somatic cell hybrids are used
which contain well-defined parts of human chromosomes, direct mapping of genes of
chromosomal regions or single bands is possible. We have regionally localised the
human beta-globin gene using two sets of hybrid cell lines: (1) Chinese hamster x
human hybrid cells containing the HC 11 long arm or both the short and long arms 
and (2) mouse x human hybrids containing only the HC 11 short arm. The techniques
of liquid molecular hybridisation and Southern blotting with 32P-labelled human
beta-globin cDNA (from plasmid JW102) have been used to localise the beta-globin 
gene sequence to region 11p11 leads to 11p15. Similar results were reported
recently by Jeffreys et al.


PMID: 7354859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Nature. 1980 Feb 14;283(5748):677-9.

Cholesterol levels inversely reflect the thermal sensitivity of mammalian cells
in culture.

Cress AE, Gerner EW.

Cholesterol is a primary component of the mammalian cell plasma membrane.
Although its function is unknown, it may be of major importance in maintaining
membrane fluidity and rigidity. In artificial membrane systems, the addition of
cholesterol results in a condensing effect--thickening the bilayer and inducing
higher order in the acyl chains of the phospholipids. Permeability profiles
indicate that the addition of cholesterol into egg-lecithin bilayers increases
the half-time of solute transport. In addition, decreased amounts of sterol in
the membrane increase glucose permeability, and, in L cells, increase the
transport of rubidium. These studies suggest a role for cholesterol in changing
the physical characteristics of the membrane resulting in the alteration of
membrane permeability. We now provide evidence that cholesterol may act,
presumably via changes in physical membrane properties, with yet another
biological consequence; regulating the survival sensitivity of mammalian cells to
hyperthermic temperatures.


PMID: 7354858  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Nature. 1980 Feb 14;283(5748):670-1.

Pacemaker currents in chick embryonic heart cells change with development.

Shrier A, Clay JR.

The initial heartbeat of the chick embryo occurs shortly after the first day of
incubation. The pacemaker of this beat originates in the region of the primitive 
heart destined to become sinoatrial tissue in the adult. Individual cells
isolated from the atrial and ventricular portions of the embryonic heart are also
capable of beating spontaneously at this stage. However, the intrinsic activity
of these cells gradually diminishes from about day 7 until day 21 when the chick 
hatches. We have investigated these changes in automaticity by measuring membrane
pacemaker currents with the voltage-clamp technique from aggregates of cells
prepared from 7-, 12- and 17-day-old chick embryo cardiac ventricle. We report
that there is a voltage and time dependent conductance at 7 days which is
markedly reduced by 17 days. The reduction of this pacemaker current parallels
the decrease of spontaneous activity in these preparations.


PMID: 7354856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Nature. 1980 Feb 14;283(5748):669-70.

Osteoclasts derived from haematopoietic stem cells.

Ash P, Loutit JF, Townsend KM.

The origins of the multinucleated osteoclast have been controversial, with
osteogenic precursors and haematopoietic stem cells as candidates. Recent
evidence for the latter is persuasive but circumstantial. We report here direct
evidence obtained in radiation chimaeras from a natural cytoplasmic cell marker
transmitted by the donated haematopoietic stem cell.


PMID: 7354855  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Nature. 1980 Feb 14;283(5748):662-4.

Spontaneous stomach ulcer in genetically mast-cell depleted W/Wv mice.

Shimada M, Kitamura Y, Yokoyama M, Miyano Y, Maeyama K, Yamatodani A, Takahashi
Y, Tatsuta M.

Histamine has been implicated in the pathogenesis of gastroduodenal ulcers. Since
mast cells contain a considerable amount of histamine as well as heparin and
other biologically active substances, it seems reasonable to speculate that they 
are involved in this process. In fact, development of gastroduodenal ulcers was
reported in dogs with mastocytoma, and an increase in mast-cell number was
described in the vicinity of human gastroduodenal ulcers. Y.K. et al. have
recently found that the number of mast cells in a unit length of the skin of W/Wv
mutant mice is less than 1% of the value for the congeneic +/+ mice and that no
mast cells are detected in the intestinal canal of W/Wv mice. Therefore, this
mutant mouse was used to investigate the role of mast cells in the induction of
gastroduodenal ulcers. As a preliminary experiment, we examined the stomach and
duodenum of W/Wv mice without any treatments. Unexpectedly, we found the
spontaneous development of perforating stomach ulcers in W/Wv mice, suggesting
that mast cells do not necessarily have aggravating effects on the production of 
stomach ulcers.


PMID: 7354854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Nature. 1980 Feb 14;283(5748):658-60.

Free calcium in Xenopus embryos measured with ion-selective microelectrodes.

Rink TJ, Tsien RY, Warner AE.

A regulatory role for intracellular free calcium has been suggested in cell
division and intercellular communication via gap junctions. Previous measurements
of cytoplasmic free Ca2+ during cell division and uncoupling have been made with 
the Ca2+-sensitive photoprotein aequorin. We now report experiments using
Ca2+-sensitive microelectrodes to monitor free Ca2+ in the cells and
intercellular fluid of early embryos of the amphibian Xenopus laevis. In addition
to measuring basal levels, we have looked for changes in free Ca2+ during cell
division and during electrical uncoupling of the normally coupled embryonic
cells, induced by acidification of the intracellular medium.


PMID: 7354852  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Nature. 1980 Feb 14;283(5748):686-8.

Satellite DNA is transcribed on lampbrush chromosomes.

Varley JM, Macgregor HC, Erba HP.

During the lampbrush stage of oogenesis there is widespread transcription, and it
has been estimated that the total amount of DNA transcribed may be an order of
magnitude greater than that required to produce the necessary functional RNA for 
the oocyte. We therefore considered it likely that some of the transcribed
sequences have little, if any, translational significance, and may include both
middle repetitive and highly repeated, or satellite, sequences. Satellite DNA is 
generally defined as rapidly reannealing DNA which has a short basic sequence
that is repeated millions of times in the genome, usually in tandem arrays. The
short repeated length, coupled with the organisation of satellite sequences in
high order molecular weight tandem arrays in heterochromatic regions, have been
put forward as reasons for supposing that this type of DNA is not normally
transcribed. We report here that we have looked for and found evidence of
transcription of satellite DNA on lampbrush loops in oocytes of the crested newt,
Triturus cristatus carnifex.


PMID: 7188786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Nature. 1980 Feb 14;283(5748):673-6.

Muscarinic suppression of a novel voltage-sensitive K+ current in a vertebrate
neurone.

Brown DA, Adams PR.

Cholinergic excitation of vertebrate neurones is frequently mediated through the 
action of acetylcholine on muscarinic (atropine-sensitve) receptors. This type of
excitation differs substantially from the better known nicotinic excitation. One 
difference is that, instead of an increased membrane conductance, a decreased
conductance (to K+ ions) frequently accompanies muscarinic depolarisation. This
has been detected in sympathetic, cortical and hippocampal neurones. Using
voltage-clamped frog sympathetic neurones we have now identified a distinctive
voltage-sensitive K+-current, separate from the delayed rectifier current, as the
prime target for muscarinic agonists. We have termed this current the M-current, 
IM.


PMID: 6965523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Nature. 1980 Feb 14;283(5748):671-3.

PGE2 stimulates gastric chloride transport: possible key to cytoprotection.

Schiessel R, Matthews J, Barzilai A, Merhav A, Silen W.

Prostaglandins protect the stomach against a variety of noxious agents
independently of effects on acid secretion, but the mechanism of this
'cytoprotection' is unknown. We recently proposed that gastric surface cells
extrude or eliminate luminal acid by a process analogous to that described in
squid axon, snail neurone, and barnacle muscle. Influxing luminal H+ combines
with HCO3- which has entered the cell in exchange for intracellular chloride,
probably at the nutrient membrane. Dehydration of the resulting H2CO3 into CO2
and H2O is catalysed by carbonic anhydrase, which is present in surface cells in 
large amounts. Interference with this chain of reactions at any point frequently 
causes ulceration. We have examined the effect of 16,16-dimethylprostaglandin E2 
(PGE) on different segments of this protective mechanism and show here that the
protective effects are intimately associated with stimulation of chloride
transport. All experiments were done in vitro thus eliminating any effects of
prostaglandin on mucosal circulation.


PMID: 6965522  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Nature. 1980 Feb 14;283(5748):664-6.

Two distinct factors are required for induction of T-cell growth.

Larsson EL, Iscove NN, Coutinho A.

The molecular and cellular basis of T-lymphocyte activation remains a central
question in immunology. The growth of already proliferating T cells is known to
depend on T-cell growth factor (TCGF), a physiological mitogen. Noncycling T
lymphocytes, however, are not sensitive to TCGF. They require a short contact
with mitogenic lectins, such as concanavalin A (Con A) or leukoagglutinin to bind
and respond to TCGF, and will thereafter maintain exponential growth for long
periods provided that TCGF is not limiting. While the induction of TCGF
reactivity results from the direct contact of Con A with resting T cells, the
lectin-dependent production of TCGF is known to involve two cell types, both
present in mouse spleen. One consists of I-A-negative cells, most of which are
Thy-1-positive T lymphocytes, and the other consists of I-A-positive,
immunoglobulin-negative, Thy-1-negative cells, most of which are macrophages. The
nature of the respective contributions of the two cell types, and in particular
the cellular origin of TCGF, has not yet been established. We have now
established the I-A-negative population as the source of TCGF and show here that 
macrophages are required to supply a 20,000-molecular weight factor, chemically
and functionally distinct from TCGF, which supports the production of TCGF by the
I-A-negative cells.


PMID: 6965520  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


601. Nature. 1980 Feb 14;283(5748):680-2.

The position of tropomyosin in muscle thin filaments.

Seymour J, O'Brien EJ.

The contraction of vertebrate skeletal muscle is controlled by the action of Ca2+
on muscle thin filaments. At low Ca2+ concentrations (less than 10(-6)M) the
regulatory proteins of the thin filament, tropomyosin and troponin, relax muscle 
by preventing the interaction of myosin and actin. At higher Ca2+ levels this
inhibition is removed, when Ca2+ binds to troponin. Tropomyosin, a long
coiled-coil alpha-helical molecule, is located in each of the two long-pitch
helical grooves of actin, but troponin, a globular molecule, is attached at
intervals of 38 nm (refs 1, 2). By combining evidence from X-ray diffraction
studies of muscle and from electron microscopy, several authors have proposed
that tropomyosin moves to block or allow attachment of myosin heads to actin. We 
investigate here an alternative way of combining the data, which if valid may
have important consequences for our understanding of the regulation of muscle
contraction.


PMID: 6892575  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Nature. 1980 Feb 14;283(5748):625-9.

Cellular site of opiate dependence.

Collier HO.

Experiments on whole animals, guinea pig isolated ileum, individual neurones in
situ and cultured neuroblastoma--glioma hybrid cells indicate that opiate
dependence and associated tolerance develop within neurones bearing specific
opiate receptors (opiate-sensitive neurones). The essential change appears to be 
an hypertrophy of the cyclic AMP system, in response to inhibition by opiate of a
neuronal adenylate cyclase.


PMID: 6243745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Nature. 1980 Feb 14;283(5748):666-8.

Immunisation against heterologous type II collagen induces arthritis in mice.

Courtenay JS, Dallman MJ, Dayan AD, Martin A, Mosedale B.

The induction of polyarthritis in rats by intradermal immunisation with
homologous or heterologous type II collagen incomplete or incomplete Freund's
adjuvant was reported recently by Trentham et al. We have now produced a similar 
disease in certain strains of mice.


PMID: 6153460  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Nature. 1980 Feb 14;283(5748):637-42.

gamma-beta-Thalassaemia studies showing that deletion of the gamma- and
delta-genes influences beta-globin gene expression in man.

Van der Ploeg LH, Konings A, Oort M, Roos D, Bernini L, Flavell RA.

In gamma-beta-thalassaemia, human gamma- and beta-globin gene expression is
suppressed; this results in a severe anaemia in newborns which subsequently
develops into a beta-thalassaemia syndrome in adult life. This hereditary disease
is now shown to be the result of a deletion of at least 40,000 base pairs of the 
gammadeltabeta-globin gene locus. The gamma- and delta-globin genes are deleted
in the affected chromosome but, surprisingly, the beta-globin gene is still
present, together with a large segment of the DNA sequences flanking the gene on 
its 5'-side and the entire region on the 3'-side of the gene. Hence, a deletion
of DNA far from the beta-globin gene results in the suppression of its activity.


PMID: 6153459  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Nature. 1980 Feb 7;283(5747):596-9.

Mutagenicity of carcinogenic methylating agents is associated with a specific DNA
modification.

Newbold RF, Warren W, Medcalf AS, Amos J.

The carcinogenic potency of simple aliphatic alkylating agents such as the
alkylnitrosamides and the alkylmethanesulphonates is positively correlated with
their ability to alkylate the relatively weakly nucleophilic oxygen atoms in DNA,
particularly the O6-atom of guanine. Differences in the spectrum of DNA
alkylations produced by these agents can be rationalised on chemical grounds in
that the electrophilic reactivity of the alkylating species determines the extent
to which it will react at sites of weaker nucleophilicity. Alkylation of the more
strongly nucleophilic ring nitrogen atoms of the purine bases, which is the main 
site of reaction with all these agents, appears to be much less important in
alkylation carcinogenesis. O6-alkylation of guanine is likely to interfere with
DNA base-pair hydrogen bonding and is possibly the major DNA modification
responsible for the induction of GC yields AT transition mutations in bacteria
and bacteriophage by alkylating agents. Here, we have studied the effects of
three methylating agents of contrasting carcinogenic potency on mammalian (V79
Chinese hamster) cells in in culture. We report that the mutagenicity but not the
cytotoxicity of each agent reflects its carcinogenicity and, furthermore, that
the marked differences in mutagenicity are closely paralleled by differences in
levels of O6-guanine methylation.


PMID: 7354843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Nature. 1980 Feb 7;283(5747):589-91.

Epithelial cells in nerve-free hydra produce morphogenetic substances.

Schaller HC, Rau T, Bode H.

It has been shown that hydra, consisting almost exclusively of epithelial cells, 
have normal morphogenetic properties. This means that they are able to reproduce 
asexually by budding and to regenerate head or foot with conservation of the
original polarity. Such hydra have no interstitial cells and they lack nerves and
nematocytes as differentiation produces of the interstitital stem cell.
Consequently, they are unable to catch or ingest food and would not survive in
ntaure. However, stocks can be maintained in the laboratory, if food is injected 
into the gastric cavity. The fact that nerve-free hydra would grow and regenerate
normally raised some doubts as to the role of the nervous system in the control
of differentiation and development in hydra. In particular, the significance of
morphogenetic substances, such as the head activator, which is normally produced 
by nerve cells, seemed to need reassessment. We now show that epithelial cells,
seemed toneed reassessment. We now show that epithelial cells in hydra have the
potential to produce head activator and other morphogenetic factors, but that
this property is repressed in the presence of nerves.


PMID: 7354842  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Nature. 1980 Feb 7;283(5747):578-80.

Autoreactive natural killer-like cells from agar-cloned murine bone marrow cells.

Claësson MH, Olsson L.

Natural surveillance against malignant cells has been ascribed to so-called
natural killer (NK) cells. These cells attack tumour cells without prior antigen 
stimulation and may also be cytotoxic to non-malignant cells. NK cells are
routinely demonstrated by their cytotoxic activity against various types of
tumour cell in vitro, but elucidation of the characteristics of the cytotoxic
cells has hitherto been hampered by the lack of techniques by which NK cells can 
be isolated. Here we demonstrate murine NK-like activity from bone marrow cells
cloned in semi-solid agar medium for granulocyte-macrophage colony formation.
Data obtained indicate that such procedures considerably improve the possibility 
of obtaining quite pure NK cell populations by which the NK cell phenomenon may
be studied in more detail.


PMID: 7354841  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Nature. 1980 Feb 7;283(5747):574-6.

Requirement for monocytes in the spontaneous cytotoxic effects of human
lymphocytes against non-lymphoid target cells.

de Vries JE, Mendelsohn J, Bont WS.

Human lymphocytes have been shown to lyse in vitro a large variety of target
cells derived from tumour as well as normal tissues. The effector cells involved 
in this spontaneous cell-mediated cytotoxicity (SCMC) have generally been
characterised as lymphocytes which lack surface membrane immunoglobulin (sIg) and
lack or express only low-affinity receptors for sheep red blood cells (SRBC), but
possess receptors for the Fc portion of IgG (refs 3--7). We have previously shown
that monocytes may be involved in SCMC, as strong depletions of adherent cells
always resulted in a reduction in SCMC. In the present study, experiments were
undertaken to determine the role of monocytes in SCMC. Evidence is presented that
monocytes have a helper function in the lymphocyte-mediated SCMC against target
cells growing in monolayer cultures, whereas effector cells in SCMC against
lymphoid target cells growing in suspension cultures were lysed by lymphocytes in
the absence of monocytes.


PMID: 7354840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Nature. 1980 Feb 7;283(5747):570-2.

Effects of 4-aminopyridine on normal and demyelinated mammalian nerve fibres.

Sherratt RM, Bostock H, Sears TA.

We have previously demonstrated that a drug which prolongs action potentials can,
like a reduction in temperature, overcome conduction failure in demyelinated
nerve fibres. Although the particular substance then used, a scorpion venom, was 
not a suitable therapeutic agent, we suggested that other drugs, with similar but
milder effects on the action potential, might be effective in the symptomatic
treatment of multiple sclerosis. We now report some encouraging results obtained 
with 4-amino-pyridine (4AP), a substance which blocks the voltage-dependent
potassium current in squid giant axons. The use of a potassium-blocking agent to 
prolong action potentials may seem surprising because we previously found
tetraethylammonium chloride (TEA), another potassium blocker, ineffective on
normal rat myelinated fibres, and two recent voltage-clamp studies have confirmed
that mammalian nodes have few, if any, potassium channels. On the other hand, 4AP
strongly potentiates transmitter release from the unmyelinated terminals of rat
motor nerves, and the possibility arose that demyelinated axon membrane, which
can conduct impulses continuously like an unmyelinated fibre, might further
resemble its unmyelinated terminals by responding to 4AP. In testing this
hypothesis, we have found that both TEA and 4AP prolong action potentials of
demyelinated and unmyelinated fibres, and both facilitate conduction in fibres
blocked by demyelination. 4AP is effective at lower concentrations, and is the
more promising for clinical use, as it has already been used with beneficial
effects in the treatment of Eaton-Lambert syndrome and myasthenia gravis.


PMID: 7354839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Nature. 1980 Feb 7;283(5747):545-9.

Structure of the junction between communicating cells.

Unwin PN, Zampighi G.

An 18-A resolution map of the 'gap junction' has been obtained by electron
microscopy. The protein oligomer in the junctional membranes, the 'connexon', is 
a cyclinder composed of six subunits which are titled around its axis. Analysis
of two different subunit configurations suggests how the connexon might regulate 
the passage of small molecules between cell interiors.


PMID: 7354837  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Nature. 1980 Feb 7;283(5747):599-600.

Post-transciptional control of coordinated ribosomal protein synthesis in
Escherichia coli.

Olsson MO, Gausing K.

The synthesis of the approximately 50 different ribosomal proteins (r proteins)
is very well coordinated in Escherichia coli. As the r-protein genes are arranged
in many different operons, placed at separate locations on the E. coli
chromosome, it is not obvious how this coordination is maintained. The first
indication that special controls are involved in the coordination came from the
observations that merodiploid strains containing F' factors with some of the
ribosomal genes also synthesise the r proteins in balanced amounts. The overall
regulation of r-protein synthesis in reponse to changes in growth conditions is
primarily mediated by changes in the rate of transcription of the r-protein
genes. To investigate whether the gene dosage control seen in merodiploid strains
is also transcriptional in nature or whether other mechanisms are involved, we
compared the transcriptionof r-protein mRNA in haploid and merodiploid strains.
It was found that the rate of transcription of the r-protein mRNA from the
str-spc cluster of genes changes in proportion to the gene dosage and it is
concluded that the expression of r-protein genes is adjusted by
post-transcriptional control.


PMID: 6986564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Nature. 1980 Feb 7;283(5747):572-4.

Abrogation of genetically controlled resistance of mice to Treponema pallidum by 
irradiation.

Klein JR, Monjan AA, Hardy PH Jr, Cole GA.

Infection with Treponema pallidum, the causative agent of human syphilis, gives
rise to a complex immune response involving both humoral and cellular components.
The exact nature of this response and how it relates to the disease process is a 
matter of considerable speculation. In recent years, studies have been directed
towards defining the role of cell-mediated immunity (CMI) in syphilis. These have
been conducted mainly in vitro because the general unavailability of inbred
rabbits, the principal animals for experimental syphilis research, has limited
the application of in vivo procedures. A prime deterrent to using mice for the
study of syphilis has been their failure to exhibit pathology, even in the face
of a persistent infection. We report here that on intradermal (i.d.) infection,
transient primary lesions, characteristic of those seen in naturally acquired
human syphilis, can be produced regularly in some strains of mice but not others,
indicating a genetic basis for host susceptibility. Strains of mice which
normally fail to develop lesions, do so after exposure to ionising radiation.
Evidence is presented for a multiple role of the immune response during local
infection.


PMID: 6986563  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Nature. 1980 Feb 7;283(5747):566-7.

LH-RH in the mesencephalic central grey can potentiate lordosis reflex of female 
rats.

Sakuma Y, Pfaff DW.

The lordosis reflex, which characterises female reproductive behaviour in
rodents, can be potentiated in oestrogen-primed ovariectomised female rats by
electrical stimulation of the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMN).
Subsequent demonstration of an immediate and large facilitation of the lordosis
reflex from the mesencephalic central grey (CG) prompted us to speculate that the
VMN may exert an oestrogen-dependent tonic bias on the mesencephalic circuitry
for lordosis via its heavy descending projections. Moreover, we considered that
luteinising hormone-releasing hormone (LH-RH) could be involved in this system.
LH-RH can potentiate lordosis when given systemically to oestrogen-primed
ovariectomised rats, and neurotropic effects of this peptide have been shown by
microiontophoresis. Also, some axons in the CG have been stained with antiserum
to LH-RH. The present study examined a possible role of LH-RH in the CG in the
regulation of the lordosis reflex of oestrogen-primed ovariectomised female rats.
Infusion of exogenous LH-RH in the CG had an immediate facilitative effect on the
lordosis reflex, whereas passive immunisation against endogenous LH-RH by
anti-LH-RH gamma-globulin diminished the reflex.


PMID: 6986562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Nature. 1980 Feb 7;283(5747):537-40.

In vitro and in vivo products of E. coli lactose permease gene are identical.

Ehring R, Beyreuther K, Wright JK, Overath P.

The lacY gene product synthesised in vitro is identical to lactose permease
isolated from cytoplasmic membranes as determined by apparent molecular weight
and N-terminal amino acid sequence. The amino acid composition of the in vivo
product agrees well with that predicted from the DNA sequence. The data assign
the translational start on the DNA sequence and demonstrate that this protein is 
processed only by deformylation but not by proteolytic cleavage at the
N-terminus.


PMID: 6986561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Nature. 1980 Feb 7;283(5747):527-32.

Three-receptor, clonal expansion model for selection of self-recognition in the
thymus.

Williamson AR.

The postulate is made that dual recognition by T lymphocytes is due to two types 
of receptor, one encoded by antibody genes and one by a distinct multigene family
with simple rules for expression. This postulate leads to a model explaining
ontogenic and evolutionary selection for self recognition, T lymphocyte effector 
function, the apparent high frequency of alloreactive T cells and immune response
gene activity. The model is contrasted with previous explanations of
self-recognition phenomena.


PMID: 6965518  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Nature. 1980 Feb 7;283(5747):583-5.

A monoclonal antibody to human acute lymphoblastic leukaemia antigen.

Ritz J, Pesando JM, Notis-McConarty J, Lazarus H, Schlossman SF.

Previous studies by Greaves and others have demonstrated the existence of an
antigen associated with cells from many patients with acute lymphoblastic
leukaemia (ALL) and some patients with chronic myelocytic leukamemia (CML) in
blast crisis. Antisera to this common ALL antigen (CALLA) have been produced in
rabbits and require extensive absorption which limits both the titre and quantity
of antisera that can be generated and may result in variable specificity in
different laboratories. The method for generation of specific antibody by somatic
cell hybridisation introduced by kohler and Milstein has been successfully used
to produce monoclonal antibodies against various normal human cell-surface
proteins, including beta 2 microglobulin, histocompatibility antigens, thymocyte 
and peripheral T-cell antigens and Ia-like antigens. The present report describes
the generation and characterisation of a monoclonal antibody specific for a
common ALL antigen (CALLA) previously identified by conventional heteroantisera.


PMID: 6928257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Nature. 1980 Feb 7;283(5747):541-5.

Sequence of the lactose permease gene.

Büchel DE, Gronenborn B, Müller-Hill B.

The nucleotide sequence of the lacY gene coding for lactose permease (M protein) 
in Escherichia coli has been determined. The sequence includes the intergenic
regions between the lacZ (beta-galactosidase) and lacY genes as well as the
region between the lacY and lacA (transacetylase) genes. Lactose permease is
predicted to consist of 417 residues (71% nonpolar), resulting in a protein with 
a molecular weight of 46,504. The reading frame was confirmed by the sequence of 
a nonsense mutation changing codon 33 from UGG to UAG.


PMID: 6444453  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Nature. 1980 Feb 7;283(5747):593-6.

(ADP-ribose)n participates in DNA excision repair.

Durkacz BW, Omidiji O, Gray DA, Shall S.

Chromatin proteins are covalently modified by at least five different processes; 
in no case has the precise physiological function been established. One of these 
post-synthetic, covalent modifications is effected by the enzyme poly(ADP-ribose)
polymerase, which uses the coenzyme NAD+ to ADP-ribosylate chromatin proteins.
The modification consists largely of mono(ADP-ribose), but long, homopolymer
chains of (ADP-ribose) are also present. Various physiological functions have
been suggested for (ADP-ribose)n. Here we demonstrate that one function of
(ADP-ribose)n is to participate in the cellular recovery from DNA damage.
Specific inhibitors of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase prevent rejoining of DNA
strand breaks caused by dimethyl sulphate and cytotoxicity is enhanced thereby.
The rejoining of strand breaks is prevented also by nutritionally depleting the
cells of NAD.


PMID: 6243744  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Nature. 1980 Feb 7;283(5747):585-6.

The appearance of single-ion channels in unmodified lipid bilayer membranes at
the phase transition temperature.

Antonov VF, Petrov VV, Molnar AA, Predvoditelev DA, Ivanov AS.

Ion-specific channels in artificial membranes have been formed by the addition of
gramicidin A, alamethicin, polyene antibiotics and some proteins to the solution 
surrounding the bilayer lipid membrane. Until now there have been no reports of
single-ion channels in unmodified lipid membranes. We have now studied the
electrical conductance of planar lipid bilayers membranes made of synthetic
distearoylphosphorylcholine (DSPC). Current fluctuations of amplitude
approximately 1pA and duration approximately 1 s have been discovered at phase
transition temperature, which shows that the appearance of ionic channels may be 
the result of lipid domain interactions. This would explain the dramatic increase
in ion permeability observed in liposomes during phase transition. We suggest
that these channels could conduct the transmembrane ionic current in biological
membranes without the involvement of peptides and proteins.


PMID: 6153458  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Nature. 1980 Feb 7;283(5747):581-3.

Direct cloning and extended culture of antigen-specific MHC-restricted,
proliferating T lymphocytes.

Sredni B, Tse HY, Schwartz RH.

The development of antigen-specific, T-cell lines has been a subject of intensive
investigation by many laboratories interested in the problems of the nature of
the T-cell receptor and the mechanism of major histocompatibility complex (MHC)
restriction. We describe here a modification of the soft agar cloning technique
which has allowed us to rapidly generate and expand proliferating T-lymphocyte
clones directly from murine lymph nodes. Using this technique, we demonstrate
that such T-cell clones are antigen specific and require I--A compatible
antigen-presenting cells for stimulation.


PMID: 6153457  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Nature. 1980 Feb 7;283(5747):587-9.

Light- and GTP-regulated interaction of GTPase and other proteins with bovine
photoreceptor membranes.

Kühn H.

Light absorption by photoreceptor rod outer segments (ROS) leads not only to
spectral and structural changes in the rhodopsin molecule but also to the
activation of several enzymatic activities including GTPase. The mechanism of
this effect is not known; however, in all cases where the action spectrum of
light-induced enzyme activation has been measured (see, for example, refs 4, 8), 
it matched the absorption spectrum of rhodopsin. This suggests that bleaching of 
rhodopsin is the primary step in enzyme activation, and that some light-induced
changes in the molecular interaction of the enzymes with rhodopsin, the major
intrinsic ROS membrane protein, should be involved. I have indeed found that
light induces profound changes in the interation of rhodopsin kinase, GTPase
(reported here), and other proteins with the photoreceptor membrane. These
changes are reversible in the dark, are strongly influenced by GTP, and are
thought to be involved in the regulation of enzyme activity by light. The
light-induced binding of the GTPase and its subsequent elution with GTP was used 
to purify this enzyme.


PMID: 6101903  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Nature. 1980 Jan 31;283(5746):502-4.

Histone H5 messenger RNA is polyadenylated.

Molgaard HV, Perucho M, Ruiz-Carrillo A.

In most known systems, histone mRNA lacks the poly(A) sequence at the 3' end of
the molecule typical of most mRNAs. Furthermore, the synthesis of histones,
unlike that of most proteins, is tightly coupled to DNA synthesis. Nevertheless, 
histone synthesis occurs in amphibian oocytes in the absence of DNA synthesis.
Moreover, it has recently been found that in amphibian oocytes most of the
histone mRNA is polyadenylated, and the polyadenylate is probably removed during 
maturation of the oocyte. Histone H5, an H1-like tissue-specific histone
occurring only in nucleated erythrocytes, is also atypical in that it is
synthesised in the absence of DNA synthesis during maturation of the red blood
cells. We report here that H5 mRNA is polyadenylated.


PMID: 7352033  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Nature. 1980 Jan 31;283(5746):499-501.

Translation of globin messenger RNA by the mouse ovum.

Brinster RL, Chen HY, Trumbauer ME, Avarbock MR.

It has been demonstrated that the Xenopus oocyte can translate rabbit haemoglobin
messenger RNA (mRNA) following microinjection of the message into the cell. The
Xenopus oocyte has since been shown to be capable of translating a variety of
messenger RNAs from different species. This system has proved useful in
un-erstanding the mechanism of message translation and has also provided
information about the translation capability of the Xenopus oocyte. Several other
cell types, including HeLa cells and fibroblasts, can also translate exogenous
message injected into the cell. However, there have been no reports of injection 
of mRNA into oocytes or fertilised one-cell ova of mammalian species.
Nevertheless, the latter system could be of considerable use in studying the
processing of exogenous messages in a mammalian system undergoing development, as
well as providing insight into the way the early embryo processes injected
messages and the protein products of such messages. We report here the results of
injecting message into the fertilised one-cell mouse ovum and show that both
mouse and rabbit globin mRNA are translated in this system.


PMCID: PMC4889339
PMID: 7352032  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Nature. 1980 Jan 31;283(5746):492-4.

Amino acids evoke short-latency membrane conductance increase in pancreatic
acinar cells.

Iwatsuki N, Petersen OH.

Sodium-gradient-driven amino acid transport is regarded as an important mechanism
for cellular uptake in general as well as in pancreatic acini.
Electrophysiological experiments in kidney tubules and intestine have revealed
that amino acids can cause sodium-dependent membrane depolarisation. The
mechanism of this depolarisation is unknown as it is uncertain whether the
depolarisation is accompanied by a membrane conductance increase. The pancreatic 
acinar tissue would seem to be an ideal system for investigating the
electrophysiological mechanism of action of amino acids because (1) the pancreas 
is the most active amino acid-accumulating tissue, (2) the basic
electrophysiology of the pancreatic acinar cells is well characterised and (3) a 
direct comparison can be made in the same cells between the electrical actions of
the pancreatic secretagogues and the amino acids. We now show that L-alanine
evokes a stereospecific membrane depolarisation accompanied by an increase in
membrane conductance and this this membrane effect has a much shorter latency
than the secretagogue response. The null (equilibrium) potential for the amino
acid-evoked potential change corresponds to the sodium equilibrium potential.


PMID: 7352031  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Nature. 1980 Jan 31;283(5746):485-6.

Imidazole inhibits a temperature-dependent component of mammalial skeletal muscle
action potential.

Cheung DW, Daniel EE.

Temperature-dependent transition of conductance in ionic channels has been
described in several membrane systems. We report here an abrupt change in the
maximal rate of rise of the action potentials of the rat extensor digitorum
longus (EDL) at 32 degrees C, indicating alteration in the functional
characteristics of the sodium channels. Tetrodotoxin (TTX) and imidazole were
used to investigate further the change in properties of the sodium channels with 
respect to temperature. TTX is known for its specificity in blocking sodium
channels. It has been proposed that the guanidinium group of the TTX molecule is 
essential for its activity. Other guanidinium compounds have also been shown to
be effective in blocking the sodium channels. In this study, imidazole, a
compound structurally similar to guanidine, was also tested. We find that TTX and
imidazole affect the maximal rate of rise of the action potential in a
temperature-dependent manner.


PMID: 7352030  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Nature. 1980 Jan 31;283(5746):478-9.

Biochemical basis for the continuous copulation of female Schistosoma mansoni.

Atkinson KH, Atkinson BG.

Sexual dimorphism in blood flukes of the family Schistosomatidae is marked, and
until the male clasps the female in the gynaecophoric canal the female cannot
attain sexual maturity or migrate out of the liver. When previously-paired
egg-producing females are transferred to a new host without males, the vitelline 
cells necessary for egg production degenerate. By means of sensitive
fluorographic analysis of electrophoresed polypeptides, we have now found
molecular evidence of an obligatory continuous relationship between the sexes in 
Schistosoma mansoni. The male worm retains little of the protein it produces in
greatest abundance, and this protein is electrophoretically identical to the most
abundant protein found in, but not synthesised by, the female.


PMID: 7352026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Nature. 1980 Jan 31;283(5746):473-4.

Size constancy fails below half a degree.

Ross J, Jenkins B, Johnstone JR.

Size constance is a term used to refer to the fact that objects seem to maintain 
size as their distance from an observer changes, despite change in image size. It
is known that size constancy has limits. People seen from the top of tall
buildings look small. By observing objects, including the Moon, and after-images,
we demonstrate here that size constancy holds when image size is above half a
degree, and breaks down when it is less. In other words, image size is scaled for
distance only when image size is above half a degree.


PMID: 7352024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Nature. 1980 Jan 31;283(5746):433-8.

The mechanism of protein secretion across membranes.

Davis BD, Tai PC.

Many secreted proteins are synthesised as a large precursor with an additional
hydrophobic N-terminal signal sequence that is cleaved by a membrane-bound
enzyme. The proteins are secreted as nascent chains. The work leading to the
current models of protein secretion is reviewed and the value of bacterial
systems in the study of protein transfer across membranes is stressed.


PMID: 7352023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Nature. 1980 Jan 31;283(5746):497-9.

The joining of V and J gene segments creates antibody diversity.

Weigert M, Perry R, Kelley D, Hunkapiller T, Schilling J, Hood L.

The variable regions of mouse kappa (kappa) chains are coded for by multiple
variable (V) gene segments and multiple joining (J) gene segments. The V kappa
gene segments code for residues 1 to 95; the J kappa gene segments code for
residues 96 to 108 (refs 1-3). This gene organisation is similar to that encoding
the V lambda regions. Diversity in V kappa regions arises from several sources:
(1) there are multiple germ-line V kappa gene segments and J kappa gene segments;
(2) combinatorial joining of V kappa gene segments with different germline J
kappa gene segments; and possibly, (3) somatic point mutation, as postulated for 
V lambda gene segments. Also, from a comparison of the number of germ-line J
kappa gene segments and amino acid sequences, it has been suggested that J kappa 
region sequences may be determined by the way V kappa and J kappa gene segments
are joined. This report supports this model by directly associating various J
kappa sequences with given J kappa gene segments.


PMID: 6766210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Nature. 1980 Jan 31;283(5746):487-9.

Dopamine stimulates the degradation of gonadotropin releasing hormone by rat
synaptosomes.

Marcano de Cotte D, De Menezes CE, Bennett GW, Edwardson JA.

Immunohistochemical studies have shown the existence of synapses between nerve
endings containing dopamine and gonadotropin releasing hormone (LH-RH)
respectively in the hypothalamic median eminence. It is generally accepted that
this transmitter is involved in the regulation of gonadotropin secretion as a
modulator of LH-RH release, although the evidence is conflicting and both
inhibitory and excitatory actions of dopamine have been reported. In vitro
studies support the excitatory effect and low doses of dopamine have been shown
to release LH-RH from incubated hypothalamic fragments and synaptosomes. This
report describes studies with nerve endings isolated from the rat hypothalamus in
which dopamine at higher concentrations than those used previously has been found
to stimulate the degradation of LH-RH but not thyrotropin releasing hormone
(TRH). This mechanism seems to be physiological in that it is calcium-dependent, 
requires the structural integrity of the nerve endings and fluctuates with the
reproductive state of the animal.


PMID: 6766209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Nature. 1980 Jan 31;283(5746):494-5.

Induction of interferon in AKR mice by murine leukaemia viruses.

Blank KJ, Murasko DM.

A high percentage of AKR mice develop spontaneous leukaemia which has shown to be
associated with the early expression of ecotropic murine leukaemia virus (MuLV)
and the subsequent expression of xenotropic as well as polytropic MuLVs.
Generally, mice infected with any one of several groups of viruses, including
MuLVs, have been shown to produce interferon (IF). However, we report here that
AKR mice produce no IF, despite that fact that infectious, endogenous MuLV is
expressed in these mice from birth.


PMID: 6243404  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Nature. 1980 Jan 31;283(5746):489-92.

Modulation of nicotinic receptors by opiate receptor agonists in cultured adrenal
chromaffin cells.

Kumakura K, Karoum F, Guidotti A, Costa E.

Morphological, physiological and pharmacological evidence indicates that opioid
peptides, which in the brain are located intraneurally, may function as
neurotransmitters. Similar evidence is not yet available for the opioid peptides 
that are stored in chromaffin cells of adrenal medulla and in axon terminals
located in adrenal medulla and sympathetic ganglia. The present report
contributes evidence suggesting that the opioid peptides which are stored in the 
axon terminals of the splanchnic nerves located in adrenal medulla may function
as neuromodulators of the acetylcholine receptors located on chromaffin cells
that are involved in catecholamine release. We support this functional role of
the opioid peptides by showing that primary cultures of chromaffin cells of
bovine medulla contain opiate receptors. When these receptors are occupied by
specific agonists, the number of nicotinic receptors and the amount of
catecholamine released by maximal doses of nicotine are reduced. Thus, like in
other neuronal systems also in adrenal medulla, the action of opioid peptides is 
inhibitory. The specificity of this action is in part supported by the inability 
of opiate receptor agonists to reduce the Ca2+-dependent release of
catecholamines elicited by K+ ions.


PMID: 6243403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Nature. 1980 Jan 31;283(5746):445-53.

Coding potential and regulatory signals of the polyoma virus genome.

Soeda E, Arrand JR, Smolar N, Walsh JE, Griffin BE.

The complete DNA sequence of the A2 strain of polyoma virus has been determined. 
It consists of 5,292 base pairs. The sequence is analysed in terms of its coding 
potential and sites of possible functional significance or structural interest.
The polyoma virus genome is compared with those of related tumour viruses, simian
virus 40 and BK virus.


PMID: 6243401  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Nature. 1980 Jan 31;283(5746):454-7.

Amino acid sequence changes in the haemagglutinin of A/Hong Kong (H3N2) influenza
virus during the period 1968--77.

Laver WG, Air GM, Dopheide TA, Ward CW.

Haemagglutinin molecules from nine strains of A/Hong Kong/68 (H3N2) influenza
virus, isolated between 1968 and 1977, were examined for changes in amino acid
sequences. At least 18 changes, 9 of which were located precisely, occurred in
the soluble tryptic peptides of the large haemagglutinin polypeptide (HA1) during
this period. These peptides contained 262 residues (82% of HA1). In HA2, only two
changes in 129 residues (58% of HA2) were detected. Sequential changes at a
particular locus were not found; and as far as we can tell, once an amino acid
changed, it did not change again in any subsequent variant examined.


PMID: 6153236  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Nature. 1980 Jan 24;283(5745):406-8.

Common pathways of interferon and hormonal action.

Blalock JE, Stanton JD.

The action of interferon as well as polypeptide hormones has been shown to be
transmissible between cells, possibly through gap-junctional transfer of
secondary messenger molecules. This and other similarities between interferon and
polypeptide hormones have led us to propose that there is a common cellular
pathway of interferon and hormonal action. If correct, this hypothesis would
predict that interferon should cause a species-specific hormonal response and a
hormone should induce tissue-specific antiviral activity. If these two responses 
are mediated by similar secondary messengers, they should be transmissible and
cross-activate cells. Here, we show that interferon caused a species-specific
hormonal response (noradrenaline-like stimulation of the beat frequency of
cultured mouse myocardial cells). Noradrenaline induced an interferon-like
antiviral state in mouse myocardial cells but not human amnion (WISH) cells. In
conditions which demonstrate interferon-induced transfer of viral resistance,
exposure of co-cultures of mouse myocardial cells and WISH cells to either human 
interferon or noradrenaline caused an increased beat frequency in the myocardial 
cells and development of antiviral activity in WISH cells, respectively. These
studies strongly suggest common pathways of interferon and hormonal stimulation
that are transmissible between cells.


PMID: 7352018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Nature. 1980 Jan 24;283(5745):400-2.

Immune and virus-induced interferons may activate cells by different
derepressional mechanisms.

Dianzani F, Zucca M, Scupham A, Georgiades JA.

Virus-induced interferon (VIF), and immune interferon (IIF) produced by
lymphocytes following activation by various mitogens (phytohaemagglutinin,
concanavalin A, staphlococcal enterotoxin A) or by specific antigenic stimulation
(tuberculin, bacterial toxoids, and viral antigens) show important functional
differences. These include different antitumour and immunoregulatory activities
and differential inhibition of activity by mercaptoethanol. Another important
difference has recently been shown: cells treated with IIF acquire the antiviral 
state much more slowly than those treated with VIF. This may be due to (1)
difference in cellular receptors, (2) presence of an inhibitor of antiviral
activity in the IIF preparations, or (3) a different mechanism of activation of
the antiviral state by the two types of interferon. The first two hypotheses seem
unlikely, since (1) no difference between cell association by the two types of
interferon has been detected, and (2) the presence of the slow acting IIF
preparation did not inhibit the rapid activation by VIF. The present study shows 
that the different kinetics of induction of the antiviral state result from a
major difference in the mechanism by which IIF and VIF activate cells.


PMID: 7352017  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Nature. 1980 Jan 24;283(5745):393-5.

Substance P increases membrane conductance in parotid acinar cells.

Gallacher DV, Petersen OH.

Substance P, a naturally occuring polypeptide of mammalian origin, has been
implicated both as a neurotransmitter and a neurohormone. However, little is
known of the ionic mechanisms underlying the postsynaptic response to substance
P. In myenteric neurones Katayama and North reported substance P-evoked
depolarisations (of varying latency) associated, surprisingly, with a decrease in
membrane conductance. A direct measurement of reversal potential in normal ionic 
conditions was not achieved but it was suggested that substance P acts by
reducing membrane potassium conductance. In contrast, work on salivary glands
suggests that substance P evokes an increase in potassium conductance;
however,electrophysiological work has not been carried out to verify this. We
report here that substance P evokes a marked increase in rat parotid acinar cell 
membrane conductance associated with a potential change (latency 1.7 s) that
reverses at about --65 mV. The reversal potential for substance P is shown to be 
identical to that obtained in the same cells for acetylcholine (ACh) and
adrenaline. The identical membrane action of ACh, adrenaline and substance P,
mediated by three separate receptor sites, suggests activation of a common
effector mechanism.


PMID: 7352016  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Nature. 1980 Jan 24;283(5745):391-3.

Peptide-containing neurones connect the two ganglionated plexuses of the enteric 
nervous system.

Jessen KR, Polak JM, Van Noorden S, Bloom SR, Burnstock G.

The enteric nervous system (ENS) of the mammalian gut consists principally of two
ganglionated plexuses, the myenteric and submucous, which are embedded in the gut
wall. Little is known about the anatomical and functional connections between the
two plexuses and further clarification of their relationship is of central
importance for the understanding of the ENS. In the present study we have
approached this problem in a new way, using methods we have previously developed 
for maintaining the myenteric and submucous plexuses separately in vitro for
several weeks. In an immunohistochemical study of these preparations and also of 
sections from normal and extrinsically denervated gut wall, we have found
evidence for reciprocal projections between the myenteric and submucous plexuses,
by nerve fibres containing two putative neurotransmitters, vasoactive intestinal 
polypeptide (VIP) and substance P (ref. 5) (see Fig. 1). Our observations were
supported by radioimmunoassay of tissue extracts. These results suggest that one 
of the roles of these peptides in the gut is to coordinate the function of the
two enteric plexuses.


PMID: 7352015  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Nature. 1980 Jan 24;283(5745):388-90.

Cigarette smoke-induced DNA damage and lung cancer risks.

Hopkins JM, Evans HJ.

Epidemiological studies have firmly established that cigarette smoking causes
almost all cases of anaplastic and squamous cell bronchial carcinomas. It is
equally well known, however, that many smokers do not develop lung cancer and,
although the amount of tobacco smoked is undoubtedly, the dominant risk factor,
it seems possible that other factors may also be involved. There is increasing
evidence to support Boveri's old hypothesis that somatic mutation is an important
event in the development of cancer and we have recently shown that cigarette
smoke condensate (CSC) produces many dose-related lesions in the cellular DNA of 
cultured human lymphocytes as measured by sister chromatid exchange (SCE)
induction. Cytogenetic studies had previously shown an increase in chromosomal
aberrations in blood lymphocytes of heavy smokers relative to non-smokers, but
little or no increase in SCEs. We have now measured basal and CSC-induced SCE
rates in lymphocytes from different individuals and report that smokers have
higher rates than non-smokers and that smokers with untreated lung cancer have
consistently higher rates than their matched heavy smoking controls. These
results are in keeping with the somatic mutational hypothesis and the
epidemiological evidence, but also raise questions related to difficulties in
smoking dosimetry and to possible variation among different individuals'
responses to a common insult.


PMID: 7352014  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Nature. 1980 Jan 24;283(5745):383-5.

Feeding behaviour of tsetse flies infected with salivarian trypanosomes.

Jenni L, Molyneux DH, Livesey JL, Galun R.

Although much is known about factors which determine infection rates of
salivarian trypanosomes (subgenera Nannomonas, Duttonella and Tryanozoon) in the 
tsetse fly Glossina, it is not clear why infection rates of Trypanozoon are high 
in mammalian hosts but low in wild-caught Glossina and why trypanosomiasis occurs
where Glossina is not readily detectable. We report here that the feeding
behaviour of trypanosome-infected Glossina differed from that of uninfected
control flies. Infected flies probed more frequently and fed more voraciously. We
describe a specific relationship between trypanosomes and the mechanoreceptors
responsible for detecting the rate of blood flow, and show how infection affects 
that rate in the labrum. We suggest that the observed differences in feeding
behaviour result from impaired function of the labral mechanoreceptors in
infected Glossina.


PMID: 7352013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Nature. 1980 Jan 24;283(5745):377-8.

Distracting information, motor performance and sex differences.

Laszlo JI, Bairstow PJ, Ward GR, Bancroft H.

It is often argued that, in general, men are superior to women in perceptual
motor skills (for example, car driving). Extensive reviews of the relevant
literature do not give convincing evidence of sex differences in manual dexterity
or motor skills in general. However, in the studies reported here, variables have
been isolated which demonstrate that sex differences do exist in two perceptual
motor tasks. These studies showed that females are adversely affected by
irrelevant stimuli while performing tasks permitting freedom in movements but
perform as well as males when the movement is stereotyped.


PMID: 7352012  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Nature. 1980 Jan 24;283(5745):375-7.

Data from kinships of monozygotic twins indicate maternal effects on verbal
intelligence.

Rose RJ, Boughman JA, Corey LA, Nance WE, Christian JC, Kang KW.

Familial resemblance in intellectual skills is well documented, but its
interpretation is a source of continuing controversy. The critical problem is
that a family's shared genes are confounded with its shared experiences, and
controls possible in animal research (selective mating, cross-fostering, and
uniform or randomised environments) do not directly apply to human subjects.
Conventional twin and family methods reveal substantial genetic variance in
intelligence quotient (IQ) test scores, but the same methods also document
significant environmental influences. Research designs which can identify the
nature of these environmental factors may effect progress in the 'IQ debate'
(ref. 1). The families of monozygotic (MZ) twins provide a new research design
which permits a unique assessment of maternal influences in quantitative traits. 
We describe here initial applications of the design to verbal IQ, with results
suggesting that maternal effects significantly contribute to familial similarity 
in verbal intelligence.


PMID: 7188713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Nature. 1980 Jan 24;283(5745):346-50.

Lateral mobility in reconstituted membranes--comparisons with diffusion in
polymers.

Schindler M, Osborn MJ, Koppel DE.

The diffusion coefficients (D) of lipopolysaccharide, phospholipid, and
Escherichia coli matrix protein were determined in reconstituted multibilayer
membranes. Over a range of protein concentration of 0--60% by weight, D for
lipopolysaccharide decreased 10-fold, whereas D for phospholipid remained
essentially constant. The diffusion coefficient of matrix protein at a
concentration of 50% was less than or equal to 10(-12) cm2 s-1. These results are
discussed in terms of a model for diffusion in polymeric networks.


PMID: 6986035  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Nature. 1980 Jan 24;283(5745):351-6.

The role of gene deletion in the immunoglobulin heavy chain switch.

Rabbitts TH, Forster A, Dunnick W, Bentley DL.

We have examined the arrangement of the genes for the mouse heavy chain
subclasses gamma 2b, gamma 2a and gamma 1 by the Southern hybridisation
procedure. Evidence has been found for rearrangement involving the gamma 2b and
gamma 2a CH genes in the DNA of cells making IgG2b and IgG2a respectively. The
DNA of an IgG2b-secreting line lacks detectable C gamma 1 gene, whilst the DNA of
an IgG2a-secreting line lacks detectable C gamma 1 and C gamma 2b genes. The DNA 
of a cell line secreting IgA lacks detectable C gamma genes. These observations
implicate deletion in the mechanism of the H-chain switch and allow a preliminary
ordering of some of the CH genes in the mouse genome.


PMID: 6766206  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Nature. 1980 Jan 24;283(5745):387-8.

Noradrenaline and cyclic AMP--independent growth stimulation in newt limb
blastemata.

Rathbone MP, Petri J, Choo AF, Logan DM, Carlone RL, Foret JE.

Adult newts regenerate functional limbs after amputation. This process normally
depends on the trophic influence of nerves on the regenerating limbs,
particularly in the early stages before differentiation of the regeneration
blastema, when it stimulates growth by maintaining high rates of macromolecular
synthesis. The sequence of biochemical events involved is unknown, but it has
been suggested that intracellular cyclic AMP may be a second messenger within the
blastema. Many studies have indicated that the neural agent(s) involved might be 
protein. The recent finding that blastemata contain high levels of
catecholamines, however, has implicated noradrenaline (NA) as the neurotrophic
agent, and suggested that it works via stimulation of beta-adrenergic receptors
on the blastemal cells, thereby raising the intracellular concentrations of
cyclic AMP. To test this hypothesis we studied the ability of NA alone and in
combination with alpha-and beta-adrenergic antagonists to increase cyclic AMP
levels and to mimic the effects of nerves by maintaining high rates of protein
synthesis and high mitotic indices (MI) in denervated blastemata in organ
culture. We find that although NA raises cyclic AMP levels through a
beta-adrenergic effect, it does not maintain high rates of protein synthesis or
high MI in cultured blastemata. It is unlikely therefore, that this hypothesis
applies.


PMID: 6243400  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Nature. 1980 Jan 17;283(5744):313-4.

1H NMR study of valinomycin conformation in a phospholipid bilayer.

Feigenson GW, Meers PR.

Our understanding of how ions pass across biological membranes has been greatly
advanced by the study of small molecules which are capable of enhancing ion
transport. The concepts of ion movement through channels or via mobile ion
carriers have arisen from studies of model systems. However, direct probing at
the molecular level of the process of ion movement in a membrane system has
proved difficult. The electrical properties of black lipid membrane model systems
do not provide information about the details of ionophore location or
conformation. Spectroscopic methods which are suited for probing the details of
ionophore conformation and the stoichometry of ion binding have been confined
largely to organic solvent systems which are limited as models for biological
membranes. We report here proton magnetic resonance (1H NMR) spectroscopic
studies which investigate valinomycin conformation and ion binding in small
bilayer vesicles.


PMID: 7352006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Nature. 1980 Jan 17;283(5744):249-256.

Intermediate filaments as mechanical integrators of cellular space.

Lazarides E.

Five chemically distinct classes of intermediate filaments can be identified
within higher eukaryotic cells. Each class is characteristic of a particular cell
type. These filaments may function to integrate mechanically the various
structures of the cytoplasmic space in a way that is tailored to the
differentiated state of the cell.


PMID: 7188712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Nature. 1980 Jan 17;283(5744):293-5.

Chemical modification reduces the conductance of sodium channels in nerve.

Sigworth FJ, Spalding BC.

Tetrodotoxin (TTX) and saxitoxin (STX) are extremely potent poisons that prevent 
nerve and muscle cells from producing action potentials by blocking sodium
channels. If the channels are modified by reagents that act on carboxyl groups,
however, both the binding of these toxins and their effect on the action
potential are reduced. One such reagent, trimethyloxonium ion (TMO) converts
channels into a form that is not blocked by TTX concentrations 10(5) times
greater than its normal Kd (ref. 6). Most such chemical modifications of sodium
channels also reduce the measured membrane sodium current, but it has not been
known whether such reductions were due to a change in the number of channels, in 
permeability properties, or in gating properties. We now report that
TMO-modified, TTX-resistant sodium channels have a smaller single-channel
conductance (gamma) with a more linear instantaneous current-voltage relationship
than that of normal channels, and that the measured reduction in gamma accounts
for all of the decrease in sodium current after TMO treatment. This change in
sodium channel permeability properties can be explained by the removal of a fixed
negative charge near the outside of the channel.


PMID: 6965422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Nature. 1980 Jan 17;283(5744):295-7.

Met-enkephalin circulates in human plasma.

Clement-Jones V, Lowry PJ, Rees LH, Besser GM.

The physiological roles of Met-enkephalin and Leu-enkephalin are still unknown.
They may act as neurotransmitters in the central and peripheral nervous systems. 
Met-enkephalin has been detected in several species in a variety of tissues
including brain, spinal cord and gut using bioassays, opiate receptor assays and 
radioimmunoassays (RIA). It has also been detected in human gut
immunocytochemically and in human brain and cerebrospinal fluid by opiate
receptor assay and RIA. However, all reported assays show some degree of
cross-reaction with Leu-enkephalin and unequivocal differentiation between the
two enkephalins and the larger endorphins has not always been possible. Thus the 
existence of Met-enkephalin in human tissues and fluids remains in doubt. Using a
highly specific RIA, we have now obtained evidence that Met-enkephalin-like
material circulates in the plasma of normal subjects and may be secreted by the
adrenal gland. Chromatographically the material exists in plasma mainly as the
intact pentapeptide and not as the biologically inactive degradation product
Gly-Gly-Phe-Met as would be expected from metabolic studies.


PMID: 6243397  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Nature. 1980 Jan 17;283(5744):268-71.

Interactions between the carbohydrate chains of hyaluronate and chondroitin
sulphate.

Turley EA, Roth S.

Hyaluronic acid-derivatised beads spontaneously agglutinate with
chondroitin-sulphate-derivatised beads although neither bead type shows any
self-agglutination. The interaction between hyaluronate and chondroitin sulphate 
is specific for these two glycosaminoglycans and appears to occur between their
carbohydrate chains.


PMID: 6243396  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Nature. 1980 Jan 17;283(5744):264-7.

Regulation of acetylcholinesterase appearance at neuromuscular junctions in
vitro.

Rubin LL, Schuetze SM, Weill CL, Fischbach GD.

The appearance of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) at newly formed nerve-muscle
synapses depends on synaptic transmission. Synapses form when cultures are grown 
in the presence of acetylcholine receptor antagonists, but AChE does not
accumulate at these synapses. The important component of transmission seems to be
muscle activity. Treatment with dibutyryl cyclic GMP mimics muscle activity,
directly inducing synaptic AChE appearance.


PMID: 6243395  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Nature. 1980 Jan 17;283(5744):308-11.

Stimulation of cytolytic T cells by isolated viral peptides and HN protein
coupled to agarose beads.

Guertin DP, Fan DP.

Sendai virus-infected mouse cells can be lysed by mouse cytolytic
thymus-dependent lymphocytes (CTL) directed specifically against the infected
cells. The CTL is known to recognise the H-2 antigens on the target cells
together with structure(s) including at least the two viral surface glycoproteins
also found on purified virus. We report here that anti-Sendai CTL can be
stimulated in vitro by detergent-solubilised viral haemagglutinin-neuraminidase
(HN), either as the isolated protein or coupled to agarose beads. We further show
stimulation by the hydrophilic portion of a protein removed from the virus by the
protease subtilisin BPN', and we demonstrate that cyanogen bromide- (CNBr-)
cleaved viral peptides also produce such stimulation.


PMID: 6153234  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Nature. 1980 Jan 10;283(5743):224-6.

Plasmid-mediated tissue invasiveness in Yersinia enterocolitica.

Zink DL, Feeley JC, Wells JG, Vanderzant C, Vickery JC, Roof WD, O'Donovan GA.

Plasmids have an important role in the pathogenicity of certain bacterial
species, and Escherichia coli provides the most complete example of the
relationship involved. Enterotoxigenic strains of E. coli, in addition to
producing heat-stable and/or heat-labile enterotoxins, may also produce a
haemolysin and fimbriate cell surface antigens which facilitate the adherence of 
the bacterial cell to the mucosa of the small bowel. Numerous studies have shown 
that these properties are plasmid-mediated and that the plasmids act in concert
to confer on the host bacterium the ability to produce enteric disease in man and
in animals. Moreover, studies with invasive strains of E. coli have shown that
the Col V plasmid, which codes for the synthesis of colicin V, significantly
enhances the pathogenicity of its host bacterium. Although the relationship
between Col V plasmids and virulence is unclear, reports indicate that Col
V-containing strains of E. coli are better able to survive in the alimentary
tract and that colicine V itself inhibits macrophage function. It is probable
that bacterial virulence is a complex phenomenon involving both chromosomal and
plasmid genes. We describe here a virulence plasmid which mediates tissue
invasiveness in human pathogenic strains of Yersinia enterocolitica.


PMID: 7350546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Nature. 1980 Jan 10;283(5743):216-8.

Trans-complementable copy-number mutants of plasmid ColE1.

Twigg AJ, Sherratt D.

Plasmid ColE1, like many other small non-conjugative plasmids, is present in
multiple copies (about 15 per chromsome equivalent) in Escherichia coli cells.
Because of their high copy number, the replication of such plasmids has been
described as 'relaxed', even though there is good evidence that it is strictly
controlled: ColE1 derivatives have characteristic but different copy numbers and 
ColE1 copy-number mutants have been characterised. No plasmid-specified protein
is essential for the replication of ColE1 and related plasmids, as extensive
replication can occur in chloramphenicol-treated cells, in plasmid-free
chloramphenicol-treated cells transfected with a hybrid ColE1/phage replicon and 
in vitro in extracts derived from plasmid-free cells. Nevertheless, it is
possible that a plasmid-specified protein is involved in ColE1 replication
control in viable cells. Here we show that deletion of a given non-essential
region from ColE1-like plasmids results in a raised copy number. Such plasmids
are stably maintained and have their copy number returned to normal when a
complementing plasmid is present in the same cell, indicating that a
plasmid-specified diffusible gene product regulates the plasmid content of
ColE1-containing cells. Deletion of the equivalent region from the cloning vector
pBR322 gives a derivative which has a raised copy number and which has also lost 
its origin for conjugal transfer; unlike pBR322, it cannot be mobilised.


PMID: 7350544  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Nature. 1980 Jan 10;283(5743):200-2.

Phototransduction in the fly compound eye exhibits temporal resonances and a pure
time delay.

French AS.

Photoreceptor cells in both vertebrates and invertebrates respond to a flash of
light with a slow graded change in membrane potential, which is generally
depolarising in invertebrates and hyperpolarising in vertebrates. Although some
of the early photochemical and biochemical stages of the transduction process
have been elucidated in both cases, these reactions are fast compared with the
time course of the electrical response, which is typically hundreds of
milliseconds long. To explain this slow response in the eye of Limulus, Fuortes
and Hodgkin proposed a mechanism in which the light signal passes through a
cascade of simple low pass filters. The model was later defined more specifically
in terms of a chain of chemical reactions linked together through products and
reactants, and has been used with small modifications and different numbers of
stages to account for the behaviour of various vertebrate and invertebrate
photoreceptors including the fly compound eye. I have now obtained evidence that 
phototransduction in the fly in small signal conditions involves underdamped
resonance behaviour and a significant pure time delay, neither of which can be
accounted for by the conventional cascade model.


PMID: 7350542  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Nature. 1980 Jan 10;283(5743):167-70.

Mapping of metabolites in whole animals by 31P NMR using surface coils.

Ackerman JJ, Grove TH, Wong GG, Gadian DG, Radda GK.

The metabolic state of skeletal muscle and brain within intact rats is monitored 
using high resolution phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance. Regional
disturbances in metabolism (for example, localised ischaemia) are easily
observed, indicating the diagnostic possibilities of the method. Measurements are
made using 'surface' radiofrequency coils, which we discuss in detail.


PMID: 7350541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Nature. 1980 Jan 10;283(5743):157-61.

Genetic variance of laboratory outbred Swiss mice.

Rice MC, O'Brien SJ.

The extent of allelic variation has been estimated at 46 structural gene loci
within three major colonies of Swiss mice and between inbred derivative strains. 
The colonies have retained nearly the same amount and type of variation found in 
natural murine or human populations despite laboratory propagation for more than 
50 years (175 generations). The population genetic structures of the Swiss mouse 
colonies were comparable to an island population in which random fixation, and
not inbreeding or population bottlenecks, is apparently responsible for slight
losses in genetic variance.


PMID: 7350540  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Nature. 1980 Jan 10;283(5743):218-20.

Excision sequences in the mitochondrial genome of yeast.

Gaillard C, Strauss F, Bernardi G.

It is well established that spontaneous cytoplasmic 'petite' mutants of
Saccharomyces cerevisiae have mitochondrial genome units in which an excised
segment of the parental wild-type genome has been tandemly amplified (Fig. 1), so
that the excised segment becomes the repeat unit of the petite genome; the latter
may in turn undergo further deletions leading to secondary petite genomes having 
shorter repeat units (see ref. 1 for a brief review). Recent investigations on
the mitochondrial genomes of several spontaneous petite mutants have shown that
frequently the ends of the excised segment correspond to short sequences of the
wild-type genome which are extremely rich in GC, the GC clusters; alternatively, 
they seem to be located in the long AT-rich stretches, the AT spacers, which form
at least half of the genome. As sequence repetitions have been demonstrated in
both GC clusters and AT spacers, it is very likely that excision takes place by a
mechanism involving illegitimate site-specific recombination events between
homologous sequences, as previously postulated. We show here that the sequences
involved in the excision of a particular spontaneous petite genome are direct
nucleotide repeats located in the AT spacers.


PMID: 6985718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Nature. 1980 Jan 10;283(5743):195-7.

Prostacyclin inhibits mobilisation of fibrinogen-binding sites on human ADP- and 
thrombin-treated platelets.

Hawiger J, Parkinson S, Timmons S.

Prostacyclin (prostaglandin I2, PGI2), produced by the blood vessel wall is the
most potent known inhibitor of platelet aggregation induced by such stimuli as
ADP and thrombin. It binds to a specific platelet receptor and activates
adenylate cyclase, raising the cyclic AMP level in platelets. This property can
be important because platelets participate in several significant interactions.
For example, the interaction with fibrinogen or fibrin contributes to the
formation of the haemostatic plug. Intact plasma fibrinogen is required for the
aggregation of platelets induced by ADP, and endogenous platelet fibrinogen
influences thrombin-induced aggregation. We have therefore studied the effect of 
prostacyclin on the interaction of fibrinogen with human platelets. We now report
that prostacyclin inhibits the mobilisation of specific binding sites
('receptors') for fibrinogen on human platelets and that this effect parallels
the inhibition of ADP- or thrombin-induced aggregation. The inhibitory effect of 
prostacyclin may limit the extent of platelet-fibrinogen interaction in vivo and 
in extracorporeal circulation.


PMID: 6985716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Nature. 1980 Jan 10;283(5743):139-46.

The pathogenesis of cancer metastasis.

Poste G, Fidler IJ.

Metastases do not result from random survival of cells released from the primary 
tumour but from the selective growth of specialised subpopulations of highly
metastatic cells endowed with specific properties that befit them to complete
each step of the metastatic process.


PMID: 6985715  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


661. Nature. 1980 Jan 10;283(5743):204-5.

Oscillation of [Ca2+]i-linked K+ conductance in bullfrog sympathetic ganglion
cell is sensitive to intracellular anions.

Morita K, Koketsu K, Kuba K.

The intracellular free Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) regulates the K+ conductance (GK) of the
many types of cell membrane. The Ca2+ influx during an action potential activates
this [Ca2+]i-linked GK in most neurones. In caffeine-treated sympathetic ganglion
cells, however, Ca2+ released from an intracellular Ca2+ reservoir site analogous
to the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) of the muscle (see ref. 12) causes activation 
of the GK, which results in slow oscillatory hyperpolarisations (caffeine
hyperpolarisation, C-hyperpolarisation). Such a release of Ca2+ linked to the GK 
of the membrane seems important for understanding the role of the intracellular
organelles in the control of membrane activities of a neurone. We report here the
mechanism of the slow oscillatory hyperpolarisations recorded from the bullfrog
sympathetic ganglion cell in Ringer solution. It is found that these
hyperpolarisations are generated by a [Ca2+]i-linked GK system and are highly
sensitive to anions in an intracellular recording electrode, probably to
intracellular anions.


PMID: 6965320  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Nature. 1980 Jan 10;283(5743):227-8.

Functional and molecular organisation of an antigen-specific suppressor factor
from a T-cell hybridoma.

Taniguchi M, Takei I, Tada T.

Thymus-dependent (T) lymphocytes have been shown to have antigen specificity. The
antigen receptor on T lymphocytes, in contrast to that on B lymphocytes, does not
appear to be of the conventional immunoglobulin (Ig) type. Studies on the
antigen-specific factors derived from helper and suppressor T cells (Ts)
demonstrated that they possess determinants with antigen binding affinity and
products of genes in the H-2 complex (MHC). Furthermore, antibodies against the
variable region of Ig heavy chains or idiotypes have been shown to react with
T-cell antigen receptors as well as antigen-specific helper and suppressor T-cell
factors (TsF). It is, therefore, conceivable that at least two gene products are 
involved in the structural entity of these receptors: one each coded for by genes
in either. To establish the molecular nature of the recognition component of T
cells we have used homogeneous TsF from a T-cell hybridoma with a specific
function. We report here that the antigen binding and I-J coded molecules on TsF 
are independently synthesised in the cytoplasm, and are secreted as an associated
form of the two molecules; this association is required for antigen-specific
suppression of antibody response.


PMID: 6444248  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Nature. 1980 Jan 10;283(5743):199-200.

Development of specific suppressor cells in hypoinsulinaemic mice.

Ptak W, Rewicka M, Kollat M.

Mice and rats injected with alloxan or streptozotocin develop permanent diabetes,
characterised by deficient insulin production. It has been demonstrated that
hypoinsulinaemia in mice leads to significant loss of lymphatic tissue, and these
diabetic animals cannot develop contact sensitivity or efficient graft rejection.
Administration of insulin partially restored these responses and also caused an
increase in the weight of the thymus and spleen. Similar suppression of T
cell-dependent phenomena has been observed in surgically pancreatectomised rats. 
Lymphocytes of these hypoinsulinaemic animals show significantly decreased in
vitro responses to plant lectins and generate only low levels of cytotoxic
effector cells. We previously showed that cells of normoglycaemic
oxazolone-sensitised mice cannot transfer significant contact sensitivity
reactions into diabetic recipients indicating that the milieu of hyperglycaemic
insulin deficient animals cannot support all the activity of immune T cells. By
mixing immunised T cells from control and diabetic mice and transferring the
mixtures into normal recipients we now show that the non-supportive millieu in
diabetic animals may be due to active suppression rather than to athrepsis.


PMID: 6444247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Nature. 1980 Jan 10;283(5743):212-4.

Do genealogical patterns in purple photosynthetic bacteria reflect interspecific 
gene transfer?

Woese CR, Gibson J, Fox GE.

It is generally thought that interspecific (lateral) transfer of genes is so
extensive among bacteria that it is difficult, and perhaps impossible, to
determine their phylogenetic relationships. Ambler and coworkers reflect this in 
their suggestion that the relationships seen among cytochrome c sequences of the 
Rhodospirillaceae are merely the result of a haphazard lateral transfer of the
particular gene, and give no indication of the true bacterial phylogenies.
However, if comparative analysis of several unrelated macromolecules yields
essentially the same phylogenetic tree, then that pattern is extremely unlikely
to reflect the lateral transfer of genes. We have also determined 16S ribosomal
RNA catalogues for many of the Rhodospirillaceae in investigated by Ambler et al.
and here we use these two sets of data to compare molecular phylogenies for these
bacteria.


PMID: 6243180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Nature. 1980 Jan 10;283(5743):210-2.

Evolution and gene transfer in purple photosynthetic bacteria.

Dickerson RE.

A concern voiced in connection with recent sequencing of cytochrome c from the
Rhodospirillaceae or purple non-sulphur photosynthetic bacteria is that molecular
information might be of little use in deciphering bacterial phylogeny because of 
the possibility of lateral transfer of genes and the consequent scrambling of the
genetic record. This could be true for many proteins, of course, but the
immediate question is, is it true for cytochroms available for comparison? The
evidence suggests that this is probably not so. The disagreement between
cytochrome c sequences and the standard taxonomy of the Rhodospirillaceae in
Bergey's Manual is not a problem. That reference, as its title indicates, is a
manual of determinative rather than evolutionary bacteriology. Its goal is a
reproducible system for identification of bacteria. If one claims that these
determinative categories also have phylogenetic or evolutionary meaning, this is 
an assertion that must be proven. The argument outlined below suggests that
molecular traits may eventually become more a dependable basis for classification
of the Rhodospirillaceae than is gross morphology.


PMID: 6243179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Nature. 1980 Jan 10;283(5743):171-4.

Influenza antigenic determinants are expressed from haemagglutinin genes cloned
in Escherichia coli.

Emtage JS, Tacon WC, Catlin GH, Jenkins B, Porter AG, Carey NH.

A gene sequence for the fowl plague virus (FPV) haemagglutinin molecule has been 
inserted into a bacterial plasmid such that its transcription is under the
control of a promoter derived from the tryptophan operon. Such plasmids direct
the synthesis of a protein that reacts specifically with antisera to FPV
haemagglutinin. Evidence is also presented that in some cases DNA inserted at the
HindIII site of pBR322 is expressed.


PMID: 6153123  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Nature. 1980 Jan 10;283(5743):162-7.

Transglutaminase is essential in receptor-mediated endocytosis of alpha
2-macroglobulin and polypeptide hormones.

Davies PJ, Davies DR, Levitzki A, Maxfield FR, Milhaud P, Willingham MC, Pastan
IH.

The receptor-mediated endocytosis of alpha 2-macroglobulin can be inhibited by a 
diverse group of chemical compounds all of which share the property of being
inhibitors of one form of cellular transglutaminase. The present results strongly
suggest that protein cross-linking may be essential for receptor-mediated
endocytosis of some protein and polypeptide hormones.


PMID: 6153122  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Nature. 1980 Jan 3;283(5742):96-7.

Selective conversion of beta-endorphin into peptides related to gamma- and
alpha-endorphin.

Burbach JP, Loeber JG, Verhoef J, Wiegant VM, de Kloet ER, de Wied D.

beta-Endorphin (beta-LPH61-91) is a well known endogenous opioid ligand. It and
related peptides have recently been implicated in the control of adaptive
behaviour. Smaller beta-endorphin fragments appeared to be more active moieties
than the parent molecule in a number of behavioural situations. Their effects
seemed to occur independently of interaction with opiate receptor sites in the
brain. Moreover, elimination of the opiate-like properties of gamma-endorphin
(beta-LPH61-77) by removing the N-terminal amino acid yielded
des-tyrosine-gamma-endorphin (beta-LPH62-77, dT gamma E) which had greater
behavioural activity than gamma-endorphin. The CNS effects of dT gamma E
resembled those of neuroleptic drugs in several test systems. alpha-Endorphin
(beta-LPH61-76) exerted effects opposite to those of dT gamma E and in some
aspects its activity was comparable to that of psychostimulant drugs. This
opposition of effects suggests that a balance between gamma- and alpha-type
endorphins is involved in the control of brain function. We report here that
either gamma-endorphin and dT gamma E or alpha-endorphin and
des-tyrosine-alpha-endorphin (beta-LPH62-76, DT alpha E) can be formed
preferentially from beta-endorphin by enzymes associated with an enriched
synaptosomal plasma membrane fraction from brain. It is suggested that these
enzymes have a role in brain homeostatic mechanisms by regulating the generation 
of these substances.


PMID: 7350533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Nature. 1980 Jan 3;283(5742):90-2.

Pirenzepine distinguishes between different subclasses of muscarinic receptors.

Hammer R, Berrie CP, Birdsall NJ, Burgen AS, Hulme EC.

Some antagonists exhibit tissue selectivity in their pharmacological antagonism
of muscarinic responses. However, the affinity constants for equilibrium binding 
of classical antagonists to muscarinic receptors in subcellular preparations have
shown only small variations in different peripheral tissues and regions of the
brain. The binding curves do not deviate significantly from the simple Langmuir
isotherm, indicating apparent homogeneity of the receptor population in any given
region. In contrast, heterogeneity has been detected by agonist binding studies
but this may arise from different environmental or coupling restraints on the
agonist-induced conformational change and cannot be taken as evidence for
different receptor subtypes. We report here binding studies using a new
anti-muscarinic drug, pirenzepine, in which we found heterogeneity of binding
that correlates well with the pharmacological activity.


PMID: 7350532  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Nature. 1980 Jan 3;283(5742):89-90.

Removal of the synaptic target permits terminal sprouting of a mature intact
axon.

Muller KJ, Scott SA.

When the central nervous system (CNS) develops, neurones send out axons to make
contact with appropriate synaptic target cells and then stop growing. If its
usual target is missing, an axon may continue to grow until it synapses with a
suitable but inappropriate target. This suggests that contact with a synaptic
target is important in stopping axonal growth during development. Many classes of
neurone in the adult CNS retain a capacity to grow towards denervated targets,
but it is not known whether the synaptic contacts established during development 
continue to regulate the growth of individual mature, intact axons. This has been
a difficult problem to investigate; in vertebrates most studies necessarily
involve large populations of neurones, and the most direct approach, removal of a
synaptic target, usually damages many neurones, including the axons that are to
be studied. We report here a demonstration of target cell influences on the
growth of a single mature, intact axon in the CNS of the leech by selectively
destroying the axon's synaptic target without injuring the axon itself. Target
removal, which itself does not trigger sprouting of intact axons, permits the
intact axon to grow at its tip in response to injury of other axonal branches of 
the same cell.


PMID: 7350531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Nature. 1980 Jan 3;283(5742):85-7.

Spread of activation and desensitisation in rod outer segments.

McNaughton PA, Yau KW, Lamb TD.

Visual transduction in vertebrate photoreceptors is thought to involve a
diffusible internal transmitter which links photon absorption in disk membranes
to the conductance decrease in the plasma membrane of the outer segment. The
desensitisation of the photoresponse which occurs during and after illumination
may also involve a diffusible substance, because a photon absorbed in one disk
can desensitise the cell's response to a subsequent photon absorbed in a
different disk. Although both activation and desensitisation spread
longitudinally from the site of photon absorption, neither spreads over the
entire length of the outer segment. We report here experiments which indicate
that, with dim illumination, both effects decline to be half-maximal in less than
8 micrometers from the site of light absorption.


PMID: 7350530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Nature. 1980 Jan 3;283(5742):84-5.

Respiratory oscillations in arterial carbon dioxide tension as a control signal
in exercise.

Band DM, Wolff CB, Ward J, Cochrane GM, Prior J.

We have monitored oscillations in arterial pH (of respiratory frequency) in
normal man at rest and during exercise. The pH oscillations are known to reflect 
respiratory oscillations in arterial carbon dioxide tension generated at the
lungs. We have found that the pH oscillations increase in their upslope and
downslope during exercise. This means that oscillations in arterial carbon
dioxide tension can be considered as a control signal.


PMID: 7350529  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Nature. 1980 Jan 3;283(5742):80-2.

Prostaglandin synthesis in different phases of phagocytosis in lung macrophages.

Hsueh W, Gonzalez-Crussi F, Hanneman E.

Macrophages have a central role in bodily defence and inflammatory responses.
Prostaglandins (PGs), mediators of inflammation, are secreted by macrophages
during phagocytosis. PGE-like activity was first demonstrated in macrophage-rich 
peritoneal exudate cell preparations from guinea pigs; later, other kinds of PGs 
were also found to be released by mouse peritoneal macrophages in response to
inflammatory stimuli. We have shown that rabbit alveolar macrophages also produce
various PGs in response to phagocytic stimuli like zymosan and heat-killed
bacteria; however, it was not known precisely which cellular event is associated 
with PG production. Traditionally, the phagocytic process is considered in three 
stages: (1) attachment of the particle to the cell membrane; (2) interiorisation 
(phagocytosis); and (3) fusion of the phagocytic vesicle with intracellular
lysosomes (digestion). We show here that PG secretion in response to phagocytic
stimuli by macrophages is independent of the first stage, but dependent on
engulfment of the particle. Moreover, PG production does not appear to be
associated with the process of engulfment per se, but with some event following
internalisation.


PMID: 7350528  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Nature. 1980 Jan 3;283(5742):78-80.

Inability of the C3a anaphylatoxin to promote cellular lysis.

Goodman MG, Weigle WO, Hugli TE.

Investigation of the biological effects of the cleavage product, C3a, derived
from the third component of complement has generally focused on the effects it
exerts as an anaphylatoxin, that is, smooth muscle contraction and histamine
release from mast cells and basophils. Therefore, reports that C3a exerts cytoxic
effects on various cell types, and exhibits concentration-dependent specificity
for malignant cells, excited great interest. The cytolytic activity mediated by
macrophages which were activated in vitro may be attributed to their ability to
generate C3a. The far-reaching implications of such a cytolytic role for C3a led 
us to pursue these observations further. We report here that we have been unable 
to duplicate the results reported by Ferluga et al. On the contrary, we find that
C3a actually reduces spontaneous release of label below normal background levels.


PMID: 7350527  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Nature. 1980 Jan 3;283(5742):71-2.

Cytoplasmic incompatibility in natural populations of a mosquito, Culex pipiens
L.

Barr AR.

When two strains of Culex pipiens (s.l.) of different geographical origin are
cross-mated, the cross is frequently sterile in one or both directions. Such
incompatibility is said to be cytoplasmic because the crossability of a strain is
determined by its maternal lineage. The incompatibility is caused in some way by 
infection with a rickettsia-like bacterial symbiote, as removal of the symbiote
abolishes the incompatibility. In compatibility has not been observed in crosses 
of American strains of C. pipiens. On the other hand, most workers in other parts
of the world who have crossed C. pipiens strains have noticed incompatibility,
although there are no reports of incompatible egg rafts being collected in the
field. We now report incompatibility in crosses of sympatric American strains of 
C. pipiens and the collection of incompatible egg rafts in the field.


PMID: 7350526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Nature. 1980 Jan 3;283(5742):41-6.

A UGA termination suppression tRNATrp active in rabbit reticulocytes.

Geller AI, Rich A.

A tRNATrp was purified from rabbit reticulocytes which suppresses the UGA
termination codon of beta-haemoglobin mRNA. Evidence is presented that the
beta-haemoglobin readthrough protein is found in reticulocyte translations and
intact cells. Some natural readthrough proteins perform essential functions; they
are synthesised through suppression of UGA or UAG but not UAA termination codons.


PMID: 7350525  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Nature. 1980 Jan 3;283(5742):106-7.

Anisotropy of Young's modulus of bone.

Katz JL.

Bonfield and Grynpas have compared their experimental data for Young's modulus of
elasticity versus the angle of orientation of the specimen to the long axis of
bone with a theoretical curve predicted from a calculation for fibre reinforced
materials proposed by Currey. As a result of the poor agreement between the two
curves they conclude "... an alternative model is required to account for the
dependence of Young's modulus on orientation" (ref. 1). Such an alternative has
been under development in my laboratory for the past 8 years (refs 3--7). It is a
two-level hierarchical fibre-reinforced composite model which appears to provide 
a much more suitable description of the behaviour of bone as a fibre-reinforced
composite material.


PMID: 7350519  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Nature. 1980 Jan 3;283(5742):94-6.

Compensatory bilateral changes in dopamine turnover after striatal kainate
lesion.

Andersson K, Schwarcz R, Fuxe K.

Diseases of the extrapyramidal systems like Parkinson's disease and Huntington's 
chorea have been closely associated with the basal ganglia. In particular, the
prominent symmetrical nigrostriatal dopaminergic systems play an important role
in pathogenesis and symptomatology of motor disorders. Biochemical and
electrophysiological data indicate a functional relationship between the
nigrostriatal pathways on the two brain hemispheres. Unilateral pharmacological
manipulations result in short-term changes in contralateral dopamine (DA)
release, and surgical lesions on one side lead to long-term alterations in the
firing rate of contralateral dopaminergic neurones. We report here the effects of
unilateral kainic acid-induced lesions of striatal cell bodies on ipsi- and
contralateral striatal DA turnover. We present evidence that morphologically
intact dopaminergic neurones on both sides possess compensatory mechanisms which 
can counteract striatal synaptic asymmetries. Such mechanisms could be
responsible at least in part for the maintenance of symmetrical motor behaviour
in unilaterally lesioned animals.


PMID: 7188627  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Nature. 1980 Jan 3;283(5742):87-8.

Localisation of substance P immunoreactivity in amacrine cells of the retina.

Karten HJ, Brecha N.

Since its actions on smooth muscle were first described by von Euler and Gaddum, 
substance P has been isolated and characterised as an undecapeptide. The
distribution of substance P-like immunoreactivity in both the central and
peripheral nervous systems and its reported excitatory action on neurones
implicate substance P as a possible neurotransmitter and/or neuromodulator.
Previous studies using bioassay and radioimmunoassay techniques have reported
substance P in retinal extracts. Here we describe the specific
immunohistochemical localisation of substance P-like immunoreactivity in a
population of morphologically distinct amacrine cells of the pigeon retina. The
localisation of substance P-like immunoreactivity and the recent localisation of 
enkephalin-like and somatostatin-like immunoreactivity in other types of amacrine
cells suggest that the neuropeptides have a specific role in retinal function.


PMID: 6985713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Nature. 1980 Jan 3;283(5742):100-2.

Translational control of proinsulin synthesis by glucose.

Itoh N, Okamoto H.

Glucose is known to stimulate proinsulin synthesis in pancreatic islets of rats
as well as of many other animals, but the mechanism involved remains uncertain.
If proinsulin induction by glucose is regulated at the transcriptional level, the
amount of proinsulin mRNA may be increased by the administration of glucose.
Alternatively, if proinsulin induction is regulated at the translational level,
the rate of proinsulin synthesis may not be correlated with the amount of
proinsulin mRNA. We have now used a proinsulin cDNA hybridisation method to
determine the amount of proinsulin mRNA and the subcellular distribuation of
proinsulin mRNA in rat pancreatic islets. The results suggest that
glucose-induced proinsulin synthesis is mainly achieved by enhancing the
trnaslation efficiency of proinsulin mRNA preexistent on the membrane-bound
polysome in pancreatic islets.


PMID: 6985712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Nature. 1980 Jan 3;283(5742):72-4.

Influence of H-2 complex on acquired resistance to Leishmania donovani infection 
in mice.

Blackwell J, Freeman J, Bradley D.

Innate susceptibility to Leishmania donovani infection in mice (measured over
2--4 weeks) is under the control of a single autosomal gene (Lsh) segregating for
incompletely dominant resistant (r) and recessive susceptible (s) alleles. This
locus maps away from the known histocompatibility loci to a position between the 
centromere and Id-1 on the chromosome 1 of the mouse. Amongst homozygous
recessive Lsh strains of mice two patterns of recovery are observed when the
course of infection is followed over a longer term. In some strains a dramatic
fall in parasite numbers with histological liver damage occurs while other
strains maintain immense parasite loads for up to two years involving mononuclear
phagocytes throughout the body. We now present evidence which suggests that this 
difference in long-term response is largely controlled by a gene(s) within, or
closely adjacent to, the major histocompatibility complex (H-2) of the mouse.


PMID: 6765984  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Nature. 1980 Jan 3;283(5742):35-40.

Amino acid sequence of homogeneous antibodies to dextran and DNA rearrangements
in heavy chain V-region gene segments.

Schilling J, Clevinger B, Davie JM, Hood L.

The complete variable region sequences from ten antibodies and two myeloma
proteins binding alpha-1,3 dextran have been determined. The diversity patterns
of these homogeneous antibody molecules suggest that the variable regions of
heavy chains are encoded by separate variable (V) and joining (J) gene segments. 
The most striking feature of these data is the extensive sequence variability of 
a region that we denote the D (diversity) segment which is located at the
junction between the V and J segments in the centre of the third hypervariable
region. The D segment diversity may arise from a novel somatic mutational
mechanism or may be encoded by multiple D gene segments. For the first time, the 
amino acid sequence correlates of several V region idiotypes are determined.


PMID: 6765983  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Nature. 1980 Jan 3;283(5742):30-5.

Morphogenetic genes C and Nu3 overlap in bacteriophage lambda.

Shaw JE, Murialdo H.

In bacteriophage lambda, genes C and Nu3, two of the four cistrons which are
essential for normal prohead formation, have overlapping nucleotide sequences.
These genes are translated in the same reading frame so that the Nu3 protein is
identical to the COOH-terminal one-third of the C protein. This structural
relationship may provide for the functional interaction of the C and Nu3 proteins
through their regions of structural homology during prohead assembly. The
in-phase overlapping organisation of genes may constitute a general strategy to
facilitate the mutual interaction of a pair of proteins through their common
structural domains.


PMID: 6444246  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Nature. 1980 Jan 3;283(5742):26-30.

E. coli recA protein-directed cleavage of phage lambda repressor requires
polynucleotide.

Craig NL, Roberts JW.

The recA protein mediates both genetic recombination and several cellular
responses to DNA damage, including the induction of temperate bacteriophage.
Indication of phage lambda results from proteolytic cleavage of lambda repressor 
directed by recA protein. We show here that this cleavage reaction requires both 
polynucleotide and ATP. We suggest that a stoichiometric complex of recA protein 
and DNA is active both to destroy repressors by proteolytic cleavage and to
initiate pairing of this DNA to its homologous sequence in a DNA duplex ('strand 
invasion').


PMID: 6444245  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Nature. 1980 Jan 3;283(5742):102-4.

A rho-recognition site on phage lambda cro-gene mRNA.

Bektesh SL, Richardson JP.

The synthesis of RNA catalysed by RNA polymerase from Escherichia coli is
terminated at specific sites on DNA templates through the action of a multimeric 
basic protein known as rho (refs 1, 2). Three lines of evidence suggest that an
interactions of rho with the nascent RNA is important for this termination.
First, rho binds strongly to RNA; second, rho expresses an RNA-dependent ATPase
activity which is essential for termination; third, RNA polymerase does not
terminate RNA synthesis at rho-dependent sites when the nascent RNA is digested
by ribonuclease during transcription. From the fact that certain RNAs,
particularly single-stranded, pyrimidine-rich polymers containing at least 10%
cytidylate residues, are more effective than other RNAs at promoting rho-ATPase, 
it has been proposed that rho recognises specific sites oion on a mRNA
transcribed from bacteriophage lambda DNA.


PMID: 6444243  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

