
1. Nature. 1990 Dec 20-27;348(6303):747-9.

Germ-line transmission of a mutated p53 gene in a cancer-prone family with
Li-Fraumeni syndrome.

Srivastava S(1), Zou ZQ, Pirollo K, Blattner W, Chang EH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences,
Bethesda, Maryland 20814-4799.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Dec 20-27;348(6303):681-2.

Tumour suppressor genes, whose usual function seems to be controlling normal cell
proliferation, have been implicated in many inherited and sporadic forms of
malignancies Much evidence supports the concept of tumour formation by
loss-of-function mutations in suppressor genes, as predicted by the two-hit model
of Knudson and DeMars. The suppressor gene, p53, is affected in such a manner by 
numerous mutations, which occur in a variety of human tumours. These mutations
usually represent the loss of one allele and the substitution of a single base in
the other. We have now analysed the p53 gene in a family affected by Li-Fraumeni 
syndrome, a rare autosomal dominant syndrome characterized by the occurrence of
diverse mesenchymal and epithelial neoplasms at multiple sites. In some instances
the neoplasms seem to be related to exposure to carcinogens, including ionizing
radiation. The Li-Fraumeni family that we studied had noncancerous skin
fibroblasts (NSF) with an unusual radiation-resistant phenotype. DNA derived from
the NSF cells of four family members, spanning two generations, had the same
point mutation in codon 245 (GGC----GAC) of the p53 gene. This mutation leads to 
substitution of aspartic acid for glycine in one of the regions identified as a
frequent target of point mutations in p53. The NSF cell lines with the mutation
also retained the normal p53 allele. This inherited p53 mutation may predispose
the members of this family to increased susceptibility to cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/348747a0 
PMID: 2259385  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Nature. 1990 Dec 20-27;348(6303):744-7.

A gene in the human major histocompatibility complex class II region controlling 
the class I antigen presentation pathway.

Spies T(1), Bresnahan M, Bahram S, Arnold D, Blanck G, Mellins E, Pious D, DeMars
R.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Tumor Virology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Dec 20-27;348(6303):674-5.

Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules export peptides to the
cell surface for surveillance by cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Intracellular peptide
binding is critical for the proper assembly and transport of class I molecules.
This mechanism is impaired as a result of a non-functional peptide supply factor 
gene (PSF) in several human mutant cell lines with genomic lesions in the MHC. We
have now identified PSF in the MHC class II region by deletion mapping in mutants
and chromosome-walking. PSF is homologous to mammalian and bacterial
ATP-dependent transport proteins, suggesting that it operates in the
intracellular transport of peptides.

DOI: 10.1038/348744a0 
PMID: 2259384  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Nature. 1990 Dec 20-27;348(6303):741-4.

Sequences encoded in the class II region of the MHC related to the 'ABC'
superfamily of transporters.

Trowsdale J(1), Hanson I, Mockridge I, Beck S, Townsend A, Kelly A.

Author information: 
(1)Imperial Cancer Research Fund, Lincolns Inn Fields, London, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Dec 20-27;348(6303):674-5.

Class I molecules of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) bind and present 
peptides derived from the degradation of intracellular, often cytoplasmic,
proteins, whereas class II molecules usually present proteins from the
extracellular environment. It is not known how peptides derived from cytoplasmic 
proteins cross a membrane before presentation at the cell surface. But certain
mutations in the MHC can prevent presentation of antigens with class I molecules.
In addition, mutations possibly in the MHC can affect presentation by class II
molecules. Here we report the finding of a new gene in the MHC that might have a 
role in antigen presentation and which is related to the ABC (ATP-binding
cassette) superfamily of transporters. This superfamily includes the human
multidrug-resistance protein, and a series of transporters from bacteria and
eukaryotic cells capable of transporting a range of substrates, including
peptides.

DOI: 10.1038/348741a0 
PMID: 2259383  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Nature. 1990 Dec 20-27;348(6303):728-30.

Cell-autonomous action of zebrafish spt-1 mutation in specific mesodermal
precursors.

Ho RK(1), Kane DA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, University of Oregon, Eugene 97403.

In zebrafish, as in Xenopus, the well-orchestrated cell movements of gastrulation
can be dissected into several components, including epiboly, involution,
convergence and extension. Embryos homozygous for the recessive lethal mutation
spt-1(b104) or 'spadetail' have a complex set of defects in the trunk of the
embryo that may arise secondarily after loss of one of these movements,
convergence, from those precursors that would normally have given rise to trunk
somitic mesoderm. We have now tested this hypothesis by transplanting cells
between wild-type and mutant embryos, to identify the cells that spt-1 affects
directly. Our results show that the mutation autonomously affects only those
mesodermal precursors located along the lateral margin of the early gastrula
blastoderm. Other mesodermal cells and all ectodermal precursors seem not to
require function of the wild-type gene. Our findings reveal an unexpectedly
delicate genetic control of vertebrate gastrulation.

DOI: 10.1038/348728a0 
PMID: 2259382  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Nature. 1990 Dec 20-27;348(6303):725-8.

Localization of dystrophin to postsynaptic regions of central nervous system
cortical neurons.

Lidov HG(1), Byers TJ, Watkins SC, Kunkel LM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Children's Hospital Medical Center, Boston,
Massachusetts.

Moderate non-progressive cognitive impairment is a consistent feature of Duchenne
muscular dystrophy (DMD), although no central nervous system (CNS) abnormality
has been identified. Recent studies have elucidated the molecular defect in DMD, 
including the absence of the protein dystrophin in affected individuals. Normal
brain tissue contains dystrophin messenger RNA and dystrophin is present in low
abundance in the brain and seems to be regulated in this tissue, at least in
part, by a promoter that differs from that in muscle. Until now, antibodies and
immunocytochemical methods used to demonstrate dystrophin at the plasma membrane 
of mouse and human muscle have proven inadequate to localize precisely dystrophin
in the mammalian CNS. We have now made an antibody (anti 6-10) which is much more
sensitive than those previously available to immunolabel dystrophin in the CNS.
Using this antibody, we found that in the mouse, dystrophin is particularly
abundant in the neurons of the cerebral and cerebellar cortices, and that it is
localized at postsynaptic membrane specializations. Dystrophin may have a
different role in neurons than in muscle, and an alteration at the synaptic level
may be the basis of the cognitive impairment in DMD.

DOI: 10.1038/348725a0 
PMID: 2259381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Nature. 1990 Dec 20-27;348(6303):749-52.

Site-independent expression of the chicken beta A-globin gene in transgenic mice.

Reitman M(1), Lee E, Westphal H, Felsenfeld G.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive 
and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

The level of expression of exogenous genes carried by transgenic mice typically
varies from mouse to mouse and can be quite low. This behaviour is attributed to 
the influence of the mouse chromatin near the site of transgene integration. This
'position effect' has been seen in transgenic mice carrying the human beta-globin
gene. It was however, abolished when DNase I hypersensitive sites (normally found
65 to 44 kilobases (kb) upstream) were linked to the human beta-globin transgene.
Thus, the upstream DNA (previously named a dominant control or locus activation
region, now denoted a locus control region) conferred the ability to express
human beta-globin at high levels dependent on copy number on every mouse carrying
the construct. We report here an investigation of chicken beta A-globin gene
expression in transgenic mice. A 4.5-kb fragment carrying the beta A-globin gene 
and its downstream enhancer, without any far upstream elements, is sufficient to 
ensure that every transgenic mouse expresses chicken globin messenger RNA at
levels proportional to the transgene copy number. Thus the chicken DNA elements
that allow position-independent expression can function in mice. In marked
contrast to the human beta cluster, these elements are no farther than 2 kb from 
the gene. The location of the elements within the cluster demonstrates that
position independence can be mediated by DNA that does not define a gene cluster 
boundary.

DOI: 10.1038/348749a0 
PMID: 2175398  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Nature. 1990 Dec 20-27;348(6303):732-5.

Cloning of a cDNA encoding a non-isopeptide-selective subtype of the endothelin
receptor.

Sakurai T(1), Yanagisawa M, Takuwa Y, Miyazaki H, Kimura S, Goto K, Masaki T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, University of Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Dec 20-27;348(6303):673.

Endothelin-1 was initially identified as a 21-residue potent vasoconstrictor
peptide produced by vascular endothelial cells, but was subsequently found to
have many effects on both vascular and non-vascular tissues. The discovery of
three isopeptides of the endothelin family, ET-1, ET-2 and ET-3, each possessing 
a diverse set of pharmacological activities of different potency, suggested the
existence of several different endothelin receptor subtypes. Endothelins may
elicit biological responses by various signal-transduction mechanisms, including 
the G protein-coupled activation of phospholipase C and the activation of
voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. Thus, different subtypes of the endothelin
receptor may use different signal-transduction mechanisms. Here we report the
cloning of a complementary DNA encoding one subtype belonging to the superfamily 
of G protein-coupled receptors. COS-7 cells transfected with the cDNA express
specific and high-affinity binding sites for endothelins, responding to binding
by the production of inositol phosphates and a transient increase in the
concentration of intracellular free Ca2+. The three endothelin isopeptides are
roughly equipotent in displacing 125I-labelled ET-1 binding and causing Ca2+
mobilization. A messenger RNA corresponding to the cDNA is detected in many rat
tissues including the brain, kidney and lung but not in vascular smooth muscle
cells. These results indicate that this cDNA encodes a 'nonselective' subtype of 
the receptor which is different from the vascular smooth muscle receptor.

DOI: 10.1038/348732a0 
PMID: 2175397  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Nature. 1990 Dec 20-27;348(6303):730-2.

Cloning and expression of a cDNA encoding an endothelin receptor.

Arai H(1), Hori S, Aramori I, Ohkubo H, Nakanishi S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Immunology, Kyoto University Faculty of Medicine, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Dec 20-27;348(6303):673.

Endothelins are a newly described peptide family consisting of three peptides
(ET-1, ET-2 and ET-3) which are the most potent vasoconstrictive peptides known. 
They are crucial in the regulation of vascular smooth muscle tone. The diverse
functions of endothelins are thought to be mediated by interaction with many
different receptors coupled to the inositol phosphate/calcium ion messenger
pathway. However, because of the structural resemblance of the three peptides,
the presence and nature of multiple endothelin receptors remain to be elucidated.
We report here the cloning of a complementary DNA encoding a bovine endothelin
receptor, which has a transmembrane topology similar to that of other G
protein-coupled receptors and shows specific binding, with the highest
selectivity to ET-1 in animal cells transfected with the cloned cDNA. This
receptor messenger RNA is widely distributed in the central nervous system and
peripheral tissues, particularly in the heart and lung. Our results support the
view that there are other receptor subtypes.

DOI: 10.1038/348730a0 
PMID: 2175396  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Nature. 1990 Dec 20-27;348(6303):738-41.

MHC class II region encoding proteins related to the multidrug resistance family 
of transmembrane transporters.

Deverson EV(1), Gow IR, Coadwell WJ, Monaco JJ, Butcher GW, Howard JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Cambridge Research Station, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Dec 20-27;348(6303):674-5.

The T-cell immune response is directed against antigenic peptide fragments
generated in intracellular compartments, the cytosol or the endocytic system.
Peptides derived from cytosolic proteins, usually of biosynthetic origin, are
presented efficiently to T-cell receptors by major histocompatibility complex
(MHC) class I molecules, with which they assemble, probably in the endoplasmic
reticulum (ER). In the absence of recognizable N-terminal signal sequences, such 
cytosolic peptides must be translocated across the ER membrane by a novel
mechanism. Genes apparently involved in the normal assembly and transport of
class I molecules may themselves be encoded in the MHC. Here we show that one of 
these, the rat cim gene, maps to a highly polymorphic part of the MHC class II
region encoding two novel members of the family of transmembrane transporters
related to multidrug resistance. Other members of this family of transporter
proteins are known to be capable of transporting proteins and peptides across
membranes independently of the classical secretory pathway. Such molecules are
credible candidates for peptide pumps that move fragments of antigenic proteins
from the cytosol into the ER.

DOI: 10.1038/348738a0 
PMID: 1979660  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Nature. 1990 Dec 20-27;348(6303):693-9.

The let-23 gene necessary for Caenorhabditis elegans vulval induction encodes a
tyrosine kinase of the EGF receptor subfamily.

Aroian RV(1), Koga M, Mendel JE, Ohshima Y, Sternberg PW.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Division of Biology, California Institute of 
Technology, Pasadena 91125.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Dec 20-27;348(6303):678-9.

The let-23 gene is required for induction of the Caenorhabditis elegans vulva. It
is shown that let-23 encodes a putative tyrosine kinase of the epidermal growth
factor receptor subfamily. Thus, let-23 might encode the receptor for the
inductive signal required for vulval development. Because let-23 acts upstream of
let-60 ras in the vulval determination pathway, the identification of the let-23 
product provides support for a link in vivo between tyrosine kinase growth factor
receptors and ras proteins in a pathway of cell-type determination.

DOI: 10.1038/348693a0 
PMID: 1979659  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Nature. 1990 Dec 20-27;348(6303):735-8.

Cytosolic Ca2+ gradients triggering unidirectional fluid secretion from exocrine 
pancreas.

Kasai H(1), Augustine GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für biophysikalische Chemie, Göttingen, Germany.

Exocrine gland cells secrete Cl(-)-rich fluid when stimulated by
neurotransmitters or hormones. This is generally ascribed to a rise in cytosolic 
Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i), which leads to activation of Ca2(+)-dependent ion
channels. A precise understanding of Cl- secretion from these cells has been
hampered by a lack of knowledge about the spatial distribution of the Ca2+ signal
and of the Ca2(+)-dependent ion channels in the secreting epithelial cells. We
have now used the whole-cell patch-clamp method and digital imaging of [Ca2+]i to
examine the response of rat pancreatic acinar cells to acetylcholine. We found a 
polarization of [Ca2+]i elevation and ion channel activation, and suggest that
this comprises a novel 'push-pull' mechanism for unidirectional Cl- secretion.
This mechanism would represent a role for cytosolic Ca2+ gradients in cellular
function. The cytosolic [Ca2+]i gradients and oscillations of many other cells
could have similar roles.

DOI: 10.1038/348735a0 
PMID: 1701852  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Nature. 1990 Dec 20-27;348(6303):699-704.

A novel metalloproteinase gene specifically expressed in stromal cells of breast 
carcinomas.

Basset P(1), Bellocq JP, Wolf C, Stoll I, Hutin P, Limacher JM, Podhajcer OL,
Chenard MP, Rio MC, Chambon P.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Génétique Moléculaire des Eucaryotes du CNRS, Unité 184 de
Biologie Moléculaire et de Génie Génétique de l'INSERM, Strasbourg, France.

A gene has been identified that is expressed specifically in stromal cells
surrounding invasive breast carcinomas. On the basis of its sequence, the product
of this gene, named stromelysin-3, is a new member of the family of
metalloproteinase enzymes which degrade the extracellular matrix. The suggestion 
is that stromelysin-3 is one of the stroma-derived factors that have long been
postulated to play an important part in progression of epithelial malignancies.

DOI: 10.1038/348699a0 
PMID: 1701851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Nature. 1990 Dec 13;348(6302):653-6.

Evolution of a polymeric globin in the brine shrimp Artemia.

Manning AM(1), Trotman CN, Tate WP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.

Several invertebrate species possess haemoglobins in which each polypeptide
contains multiple haem-binding domains, possibly reflecting the fusion of
multiple monomeric globin transcriptional units at the gene level. We have now
analysed the transcript of such a polymeric globin gene from the brine shrimp
Artemia, which expresses three polymeric haemoglobins, each of relative molecular
mass 260,000 (Mr 260K). These are formed by the variable association of two
different subunit types, alpha and beta (refs 2,3). Haemoglobins I and III are
homodimers of alpha and beta subunit types, respectively, and haemoglobin II is a
heterodimer (alpha beta). The individual globin chains are of similar size (Mr
130K), but the exact nature of the differences between the two subunit types is
unclear. Analysis of complementary DNA clones encoding one of the subunits of the
Artemia dimeric haemoglobin showed that the globin messenger RNA encodes nine
myoglobin-like domains, connected by linking peptides. The residues in the
linkers are characteristic of those found generally in such protein linkers, and 
include turn-promoting amino acids. Each domain also contains the conserved
residues that are required for functional haem-binding, and from analysis of the 
sequences it was predicted that they all can adopt the classic myoglobin-like
fold. Analysis of the derived amino-acid sequences indicated that the individual 
domains are duplicated monomers that fused to form the polymeric globin some 200 
Myr ago. The fusion of multiple transcriptional units for the evolution of a
polymeric globin gene may have been a general mechanism for the appearance of
such polymeric haemoglobins in invertebrates.

DOI: 10.1038/348653a0 
PMID: 2250721  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Nature. 1990 Dec 13;348(6302):649-51.

Consecutive inactivation of both alleles of the pim-1 proto-oncogene by
homologous recombination in embryonic stem cells.

te Riele H(1), Maandag ER, Clarke A, Hooper M, Berns A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Genetics, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam.

Specific genes can be inactivated or mutated in the mouse germ line. The
phenotypic consequences of the mutation can provide pivotal information on the
function of the gene in development and maintenance of the mammalian organism.
The procedure entails homologous recombination in embryonic stem cells, which, on
fusion to recipient blastocysts, give rise to chimaeric mice that can transmit
the mutant gene to their offspring. Inbreeding can then yield mice carrying the
mutation in both alleles allowing the phenotypic analysis of recessive mutations.
In addition to mice lacking a particular gene function, cell lines carrying null 
alleles of normally expressed genes can be instrumental in assessing the function
of the gene. These cell lines can either be obtained from homozygous animals or, 
should the mutation be lethal early in embryonic development, be generated by
consecutive inactivation of both alleles by homologous recombination in cultured 
cells. Here we illustrate the feasibility of this latter approach by the
efficient consecutive inactivation of both alleles of the pim-1 proto-oncogene in
embryonic stem cells.

DOI: 10.1038/348649a0 
PMID: 2250720  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Nature. 1990 Dec 13;348(6302):644-7.

ATP sulphurylase activity of the nodP and nodQ gene products of Rhizobium
meliloti.

Schwedock J(1), Long SR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Stanford University, California 94305-5020.

The symbiotic bacterium Rhizobium meliloti stimulates alfalfa (Medicago sativa
L.) roots to undergo morphogenesis and form nitrogen-fixing nodules. It has been 
proposed that the bacterial genes nodABC, common to all Rhizobium, are required
for synthesis of an oligosaccharide factor, which is converted to a sulphated
form (NodRm-1) by the products of the R. meliloti-specific genes nodH and
nodQ1-5; NodRm-1 elicits host-specific plant responses. Previously we have shown 
that the nodP gene is homologous to a segment of the Escherichia coli genome;
when we cloned this E. coli fragment we found that it mapped near 59 minutes,
corresponding to the cysDNC locus. The genes cysD and cysN encode proteins that
catalyse the synthesis of adenosine 5'-phosphosulphate, the first step in the
activation of inorganic sulphate. Here we demonstrate that nodP and nodQ
correspond to cysD and cysN, and that their proteins have ATP sulphurylase
activity both in vivo and in vitro. We propose that nodP and nodQ synthesize an
activated sulphate that is an intermediate in the formation of the
alfalfa-specific sulphated nodRm-1 factor.

DOI: 10.1038/348644a0 
PMID: 2250719  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Nature. 1990 Dec 13;348(6302):639-42.

Transfer of diabetes in mice prevented by blockade of adhesion-promoting receptor
on macrophages.

Hutchings P(1), Rosen H, O'Reilly L, Simpson E, Gordon S, Cooke A.

Author information: 
(1)University College and Middlesex School of Medicine, London, UK.

Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) is a disease with an autoimmune
aetiology. The non-obese diabetic mouse is a good spontaneous animal model of the
human disease, with IDDM developing in 50-80% of female mice by the age of 6
months. The disease can be transferred by splenic T cells from diabetic donors
and is prevented by T-cell depletion. The mechanism(s) by which the beta cell is 
specifically destroyed is not known, but T cells and macrophages have both been
implicated, based on the presence of macrophages in the infiltrated islet and the
ability of chronic silica treatment to prevent disease. The monoclonal antibody
5C6 is specific for the myelomonocytic adhesion-promoting type-3 complement
receptor (CR3 or CD11b/CD18) and does not bind to T cells. Here we show that
blockade of macrophage CR3 in vivo prevents intra-islet infiltration by both
macrophages and T cells and inhibits development of IDDM. We conclude that both T
cells and macrophages have an essential role in the onset of IDDM.

DOI: 10.1038/348639a0 
PMID: 2250718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Nature. 1990 Dec 13;348(6302):605-9.

A yeast mitochondrial outer membrane protein essential for protein import and
cell viability.

Baker KP(1), Schaniel A, Vestweber D, Schatz G.

Author information: 
(1)Biocenter, University of Basel, Switzerland.

The gene encoding ISP42, an integral outermembrane protein located at the yeast
mitochondrial protein import site was cloned, sequenced and modified. Yeast cells
depleted of ISP42 accumulate uncleaved mitochondrial precursor proteins and then 
die. ISP42 is the first mitochondrial membrane protein shown to be indispensable 
for protein import and cell viability.

DOI: 10.1038/348605a0 
PMID: 2250717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Nature. 1990 Dec 13;348(6302):600-5.

Intracellular transport of class II MHC molecules directed by invariant chain.

Lotteau V(1), Teyton L, Peleraux A, Nilsson T, Karlsson L, Schmid SL, Quaranta V,
Peterson PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation, La Jolla,
California 92037.

Three structural motifs in the invariant chain (li) control the intracellular
transport of class II major histocompatibility complex molecules. An endoplasmic 
reticulum retention signal in the full-length li suggests a role for li in the
alpha-beta heterodimer assembly. Another signal motif directs a truncated li,
alone or associated with individual class II chains, to a degradation compartment
by a pathway circumventing the Golgi. When this truncated li binds alpha-beta
dimers, a third signal dominates, directing the complex by way of the Golgi to
vesicles in the cell periphery, which may represent a subcompartment of recycling
endosomes.

DOI: 10.1038/348600a0 
PMID: 2250716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Nature. 1990 Dec 13;348(6302):647-9.

Point mutation in the exoplasmic domain of the erythropoietin receptor resulting 
in hormone-independent activation and tumorigenicity.

Yoshimura A(1), Longmore G, Lodish HF.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts.

The receptors for erythropoietin and other cytokines constitute a new
superfamily. They have no tyrosine-kinase or other enzyme motif and their
signal-transducing mechanism is unclear. Here we describe two classes of
activating mutations in the erythropoietin receptor (EPOR). A single point
mutation in the exoplasmic domain enables it to induce hormone-independent cell
growth and tumorigenesis after expression in nontumorigenic,
interleukin-3-dependent haematopoietic cells. A C-terminal truncation in the
cytoplasmic domain of the EPOR renders the receptor hyperresponsive to
erythropoietin, but is insufficient to induce hormone-independent growth or
tumorigenicity. The activating point mutation retards intracellular transport and
turnover of the receptor. These alterations in metabolism and tumorigenicity
caused by the EPOR with activating point mutations are similar to those observed 
in erythropoietin-independent activation of the wild type EPOR by association
with gp55, the Friend spleen focus-forming virus glycoprotein.

DOI: 10.1038/348647a0 
PMID: 2174515  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Nature. 1990 Dec 13;348(6302):610-6.

Identification of a mitochondrial receptor complex required for recognition and
membrane insertion of precursor proteins.

Kiebler M(1), Pfaller R, Söllner T, Griffiths G, Horstmann H, Pfanner N, Neupert 
W.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Physiologische Chemie, Universität München, Germany.

The mitochondrial import receptors MOM19 and MOM72 form a complex with two other 
proteins of the mitochondrial outer membrane, MOM38 and MOM22. This receptor
complex is involved in recognition, membrane insertion and translocation of
precursor proteins with MOM38 constituting (at least part of) the general
insertion site GIP.

DOI: 10.1038/348610a0 
PMID: 2174514  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Nature. 1990 Dec 13;348(6302):651-3.

A mutation in the tRNA(Leu)(UUR) gene associated with the MELAS subgroup of
mitochondrial encephalomyopathies.

Goto Y(1), Nonaka I, Horai S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Ultrastructural Research, National Center of Neurology and
Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 1991 May 16;351(6323):194.

Mitochondrial encephalomyopathies are usually divided into three distinct
clinical subgroups: (1) mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis
and stroke-like episodes (MELAS); (2) myoclonus epilepsy associated with
ragged-red fibres (MERRF); and (3) chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia
(CPEO) including Kearns-Sayre syndrome. Large deletions of human mitochondrial
DNA and a transition mutation at the mitochondrial transfer RNALys gene give rise
to CPEO including Kearns-Sayre syndrome and MERRF, respectively. Here we report
an A-to-G transition mutation at nucleotide pair 3,243 in the dihydrouridine loop
of mitochondrial tRNA(Leu)(UUR) that is specific to patients with MELAS. Because 
this mutation creates an ApaI restriction site, we could perform a simple
molecular diagnostic test for the disease. The mutation was present in 26 out of 
31 independent MELAS patients and 1 out of 29 CPEO patients, but absent in the 5 
MERRF and 50 controls tested. Southern blot analysis confirmed that the mutant
DNA always coexists with the wild-type DNA (heteroplasmy).

DOI: 10.1038/348651a0 
PMID: 2102678  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Nature. 1990 Dec 13;348(6302):642-4.

Strong xenogeneic HLA response in transgenic mice after introducing an alpha 3
domain into HLA B27.

Kalinke U(1), Arnold B, Hämmerling GJ.

Author information: 
(1)German Cancer Research Center, Institute of Immunology and Genetics,
Heidelberg.

The pronounced response by mouse T cells to the major histocompatibility complex 
(MHC) class I antigens of the same species is characterized by a relatively large
fraction of responding cells. Responses to MHC class I allelles of other species 
are, however, generally much weaker. T lymphocytes are positively selected on
thymic MHC antigens, resulting in a T-cell repertoire with strong alloreactivity.
This has been explained in terms of a mouse T-cell repertoire that is not
efficiently selected for recognition of HLA molecules owing to the absence of HLA
in mice. Here we show that mice transgenic for HLA mount a T-cell response
against allogeneic HLA that is no better than in normal mice. We decided instead 
to test whether the mouse accessory molecule Lyt-2 on cytotoxic T lymphocytes
could interact efficiently with the alpha 3 domain of HLA. To do this, we
replaced the alpha 3 domain of HLA-B27 by a murine alpha 3 domain in a gene
construct used to produce transgenic mice, and then used the spleen cells from
these mice to stimulate normal mouse T cells. Under these conditions cytotoxic T 
lymphocytes were generated with the same frequency against xenogeneic HLA-B27
determinants as against allogeneic mouse class I antigens. These findings
indicate that the normally weak xeno-MHC response is due to the inefficient
interaction of the murine Lyt-2 accessory molecule with HLA class I, and not to
limitations of the mouse T-cell repertoire.

DOI: 10.1038/348642a0 
PMID: 1701221  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Nature. 1990 Dec 13;348(6302):637-9.

Protein kinase A regulates chloride conductance in endocytic vesicles from
proximal tubule.

Bae HR(1), Verkman AS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco 94143-0532.

Regulation of ion transport by phosphorylation and G proteins occurs in several
epithelial and non-epithelial cell plasma membranes1-5. It is not known whether
transporters on intracellular membranes are target sites for second messengers.
Here we present direct evidence that a chloride conductance in endocytic vesicles
from rabbit proximal tubule is activated by phosphorylation through a cyclic
AMP-dependent protein kinase. To measure chloride transport, endocytic vesicles
were labelled in vivo with a Cl(-)-sensitive fluorescent indicator6-8. It was
found that labelled endosomes contained an inward proton pump and a chloride
conductance, but no ion-coupled chloride transport, and that the chloride
conductance was regulated by protein kinase A. These results, taken together with
measurements of chloride effects on ATP-dependent acidification, suggest that
endosomal pH can be controlled by phosphorylation of a stilbene-sensitive
conductive chloride transporter.

DOI: 10.1038/348637a0 
PMID: 1701220  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Nature. 1990 Dec 6;348(6301):552-4.

Phage antibodies: filamentous phage displaying antibody variable domains.

McCafferty J(1), Griffiths AD, Winter G, Chiswell DJ.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, UK.

New ways of making antibodies have recently been demonstrated using gene
technology. Immunoglobulin variable (V) genes are amplified from hybridomas or B 
cells using the polymerase chain reaction, and cloned into expression vectors.
Soluble antibody fragments secreted from bacteria are then screened for binding
activities. Screening of V genes would, however, be revolutionized if they could 
be expressed on the surface of bacteriophage. Phage carrying V genes that encode 
binding activities could then be selected directly with antigen. Here we show
that complete antibody V domains can be displayed on the surface of fd
bacteriophage, that the phage bind specifically to antigen and that rare phage
(one in a million) can be isolated after affinity chromatography.

DOI: 10.1038/348552a0 
PMID: 2247164  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Nature. 1990 Dec 6;348(6301):548-50.

Laser inactivation of fasciclin I disrupts axon adhesion of grasshopper pioneer
neurons.

Jay DG(1), Keshishian H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Developmental Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138.

A molecular mechanism for selective axonal adhesion is a central question of
neural development. Cell adhesion molecules have been identified, but it has been
difficult to ascribe functions for these proteins in vivo. Here we show that the 
neuronal membrane glycoprotein fasciclin I has a role in the adhesion of sister
axons during the development of the grasshopper limb bud. To do this we used a
new technique, chromophore-assisted laser inactivation (CALI), which causes the
precisely timed thermal denaturation of specific proteins by laser light targeted
through a dye-labelled antibody, without any other observable damage to living
cells. This can be achieved by relaxation of the laser-excited dye which releases
heat to denature the bound protein; the rapid dissipation of heat with distance
insulates unbound proteins from damage. CALI is a molecular analogue of cellular 
laser ablation and provides an unprecedented level of spatial and temporal
resolution. Using dye-labelled antibodies that recognize fasciclin I, CALI
disrupts fasciculation of the pioneer neurons without affecting their growth or
guidance.

DOI: 10.1038/348548a0 
PMID: 2247163  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Nature. 1990 Dec 6;348(6301):528-31.

Evidence for multinuclear metal-ion complexes at solid/water interfaces from
X-ray absorption spectroscopy.

Chisholm-Brause CJ(1), O'Day PA, Brown GE Jr, Parks GA.

Author information: 
(1)Aqueous and Surface Geochemistry Group, School of Earth Sciences, Stanford
University, California 94305-2115.

Metals dissolved in natural waters often become sorbed onto oxide or clay
minerals, so that prediction of their chemical behaviour and transport properties
requires knowledge of the structure and bonding of metal species at the
solid/water interface. For many sorption systems, X-ray absorption spectroscopy
(XAS) can be used to determine the identity and number of nearest-neighbour atoms
and interatomic distances in aqueous complexes on solid surfaces, and thus to
identify the dominant type of surface complex and the partitioning mechanism.
Here we describe an XAS study of divalent cobalt (Co(II)) complexes sorbed on
three different solids, gamma-Al2O3, rutile (TiO2) and kaolinite (Al2Si2O5(OH)4).
We find direct evidence for the presence of multinuclear sorption complexes at
surface coverages below one monolayer of Co(II) atoms. Our spectroscopic data
reveal distinct differences in the number of coordinating atoms and interatomic
distances in the surface complexes formed on each of the solids at the same
sorption density. These results suggest that different oxide and clay surfaces
influence the structure and properties of aqueous surface complexes, and
therefore must be accounted for in models of metal-ion sorption.

DOI: 10.1038/348528a0 
PMID: 2247162  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Nature. 1990 Dec 6;348(6301):545-7.

Neuropeptide modulation of single calcium and potassium channels detected with a 
new patch clamp configuration.

Levitan ES(1), Kramer RH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06510.

Calcium channel activity is crucial for secretion and synaptic transmission, but 
it has been difficult to study Ca2+ channel modulation because survival and
regulation of some of these channels require cytoplasmic constituents that are
lost with the formation of cell-free patches. Here we report a new patch clamp
configuration in which activity and regulation of channels are maintained after
removal from cells. A pipette containing the pore-forming agent nystatin is
sealed onto a cell and withdrawn to form an enclosed vesicle. The resulting
perforated vesicle, formed from pituitary tumour cells, contains Ca2+ and K+
channels. Ca2(+)-activated K+ channels in the vesicle are activated by cyclic AMP
analogues, and by a neuropeptide (thyrotropin-releasing hormone) that stimulates 
phosphatidylinositol turnover and inositol trisphosphate-gated Ca2+ release from 
intracellular organelles. Thus, the perforated vesicle retains signal
transduction systems necessary for ion channel modulation. Functional
dihydropyridine-sensitive Ca2+ channels (L-type) are maintained in the vesicle,
and their gating is inhibited by thyrotropin-releasing hormone. Hence, this new
patch clamp configuration has allowed a direct detection of the single-channel
basis of transmitter-induced inhibition of L-type Ca2+ channels. The modulation
of Ca2(+)-channel gating may be an important mechanism for regulating hormone
secretion from pituitary cells.

DOI: 10.1038/348545a0 
PMID: 2174131  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Nature. 1990 Dec 6;348(6301):542-5.

Long-term potentiation of electrotonic coupling at mixed synapses.

Yang XD(1), Korn H, Faber DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, State University of New York,
Buffalo 14214.

Long-term potentiation of chemical synapses is closely related to memory and
learning. Studies of this process have concentrated on chemically mediated
excitatory synapses. By contrast, activity-dependent modification of gap
junctions, which also widely exist in higher structures such as hippocampus and
neocortex, has not been described. Here we report that at mixed synapses between 
sensory afferents and an identified reticulospinal neuron, the electrotonic
coupling potential can be potentiated, as well as the chemically mediated
excitatory postsynaptic potential, for a prolonged time period using a
stimulation paradigm like that which produces long-term potentiation in
hippocampus. The effect on coupling is due to an increase in gap-junctional
conductance. Our data indicate that the potentiation of both synaptic components 
requires an increase in intracellular calcium, involves activation of NMDA
(N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors, and is specific to the tetanized pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/348542a0 
PMID: 2174130  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Nature. 1990 Dec 6;348(6301):510-4.

Primary structure of Torpedo marmorata chloride channel isolated by expression
cloning in Xenopus oocytes.

Jentsch TJ(1), Steinmeyer K, Schwarz G.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Molecular Neurobiology (ZMNH), Hamburg University, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Dec 6;348(6301):489-90.

A complementary DNA encoding a voltage-gated chloride channel from Torpedo
marmorata electric organ was cloned by expressing hybrid-depleted messenger RNA
in Xenopus oocytes. The predicted protein has a sequence of 805 amino acids
containing several putative membrane-spanning domains. Expression of the protein 
in Xenopus oocytes shows that it is sufficient for channel function.

DOI: 10.1038/348510a0 
PMID: 2174129  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Nature. 1990 Dec 6;348(6301):550-2.

Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist reduces mortality from endotoxin shock.

Ohlsson K(1), Björk P, Bergenfeldt M, Hageman R, Thompson RC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgical Pathophysiology, University of Lund, Malmo General
Hospital, Sweden.

About five out of 1,000 patients admitted to hospital develop bacterial sepsis
leading to shock, the mortality rate for which is high despite antibiotic
therapy. The infection results in hypotension and poor tissue perfusion, and
eventually leads to the failure of several organ systems. Bacterial endotoxin is 
thought to be the direct cause of shock in Gram-negative sepsis, because it can
cause shock in animals, and antibodies against endotoxin prevent Gram-negative
shock in animals and in humans. But, the symptoms of septic shock are the result 
of the actions of host cytokines induced by the endotoxin. The cytokine
interleukin-1 has been implicated as an important mediator of septic shock
because it can induce tachycardia and hypotension and act synergistically with
tumour necrosis factor to cause tissue damage and death. We now report that a
specific interleukin-1 receptor antagonist reduces the lethality of
endotoxin-induced shock in rabbits, indicating that interleukin-1 does indeed
play an important part in endotoxin shock.

DOI: 10.1038/348550a0 
PMID: 2147233  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Nature. 1990 Dec 6;348(6301):515-20.

Crystal structure of the RNA-binding domain of the U1 small nuclear
ribonucleoprotein A.

Nagai K(1), Oubridge C, Jessen TH, Li J, Evans PR.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Dec 6;348(6301):485-6.

The crystal structure of the RNA binding domain of the U1 small nuclear
ribonucleoprotein A, which forms part of the ribonucleoprotein complex involved
in the excision of introns, has been solved. It contains a four-stranded beta
sheet and two alpha helices. The highly conserved segments designated RNP1 and
RNP2 lie side by side on the middle two beta strands. U1 RNA binding studies of
mutant proteins suggest that the RNA binds to the four-stranded beta sheet and to
the flexible loops on one end.

DOI: 10.1038/348515a0 
PMID: 2147232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Nature. 1990 Dec 6;348(6301):503-9.

Caenorhabditis elegans ras gene let-60 acts as a switch in the pathway of vulval 
induction.

Beitel GJ(1), Clark SG, Horvitz HR.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Biology, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge 02139.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Dec 20-27;348(6303):678-9.

The let-60 gene, an essential ras gene of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans,
acts as a switch in the inductive signalling pathway that initiates vulva
formation. Recessive let-60 mutations that cause a vulvaless phenotype prevent
let-60 function in response to the inductive signal. These mutations are
clustered and define regions necessary either for the activation or for the
action of the let-60 ras protein. Dominant let-60 mutations that cause a
multivulva phenotype alter codon 13 and activate let-60 in vivo, rendering it
independent of the inductive signal. The let-60 gene acts within an extensively
defined genetic pathway, and other genes within this pathway seem likely to
encode molecules that regulate let-60 function as well as molecules that are
targets of let-60 action.

DOI: 10.1038/348503a0 
PMID: 2123303  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Nature. 1990 Dec 6;348(6301):557-60.

No T-cell tyrosine protein kinase signalling or calcium mobilization after CD4
association with HIV-1 or HIV-1 gp120.

Horak ID(1), Popovic M, Horak EM, Lucas PJ, Gress RE, June CH, Bolen JB.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Tumor Virus Biology, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892.

The T lymphocyte surface protein CD4 is an integral membrane glycoprotein
noncovalently associated with the tyrosine protein kinase p56lck. In normal T
cells, surface association of CD4 molecules with other CD4 molecules or other
T-cell surface proteins, such as the T-cell antigen receptor, stimulates the
activity of the p56lck tyrosine kinase, resulting in the phosphorylation of
various cellular proteins at tyrosine residues. Thus, the signal transduction in 
T cells generated through the surface engagement of CD4 is similar to that
observed for the class of growth factor receptors possessing endogenous tyrosine 
kinase activity. As CD4 is also the cellular receptor for the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV), binding of the virus or gp120 (the virus surface
protein responsible for specific CD4+ T-cell association) could mimic the types
of immunological interactions that have previously been found to stimulate p56lck
and trigger T-cell activation pathways. We have evaluated this possibility and
report here that binding of HIV-1 or the virus glycoprotein gp120 to CD4+ human T
cells fails to elicit detectable p56lck-dependent tyrosine kinase activation and 
signalling, alterations in the composition of cellular phosphotyrosine-containing
proteins, or changes in intracellular Ca2+ concentration.

DOI: 10.1038/348557a0 
PMID: 1701034  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Nature. 1990 Dec 6;348(6301):555-7.

Synthetic analogues of fumagillin that inhibit angiogenesis and suppress tumour
growth.

Ingber D(1), Fujita T, Kishimoto S, Sudo K, Kanamaru T, Brem H, Folkman J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

Neovascularization is critical for the growth of tumours and is a dominant
feature in a variety of angiogenic diseases such as diabetic retinopathy,
haemangiomas, arthritis and psoriasis. Recognition of the potential therapeutic
benefit of controlling unabated capillary growth has led to a search for safe and
effective angiogenesis inhibitors. We report here the synthesis of a family of
novel inhibitors that are analogues of fumagillin, a naturally secreted
antibiotic of Aspergillus fumigatus fresenius. We first isolated this fungus from
a contaminated culture of capillary endothelial cells. Purified fumagillin
inhibited endothelial cell proliferation in vitro and tumour-induced angiogenesis
in vivo; it also inhibited tumour growth in mice, but prolonged administration
was limited because it caused severe weight loss. Synthesis of fumagillin
analogues yielded potent angiogenesis inhibitors ('angioinhibins') which suppress
the growth of a wide variety of tumours with relatively few side-effects.

DOI: 10.1038/348555a0 
PMID: 1701033  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Nature. 1990 Nov 29;348(6300):458-61.

Solution structure of the DNA-binding domain of the oestrogen receptor.

Schwabe JW(1), Neuhaus D, Rhodes D.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, UK.

Steroid hormone receptors control gene expression through binding, as dimers, to 
short palindromic response elements located upstream of the genes they regulate. 
An independent domain of approximately 70 amino acids directs this
sequence-specific DNA binding and is highly conserved between different receptor 
proteins and related transcription factors. This domain contains two zinc-binding
Cys2-Cys2 sequence motifs, which loosely resemble the 'zinc-finger' motifs of
TFIIIA. Here we describe the structure of the DNA-binding domain from the
oestrogen receptor, as determined by two-dimensional 1H NMR techniques. The two
'zinc-finger'-like motifs fold to form a single structural domain and are thus
distinct from the independently folded units of the TFIIIA-type zinc fingers. The
structure consists of two helices perpendicular to each other. A zinc ion,
coordinated by four conserved cysteines, holds the base of a loop at the N
terminus of each helix. This novel structural domain seems to be a general
structure for protein-DNA recognition.

DOI: 10.1038/348458a0 
PMID: 2247153  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Nature. 1990 Nov 29;348(6300):454-5.

Fitness of RNA virus decreased by Muller's ratchet.

Chao L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Maryland, College Park 20742.

Comment in
    Nature. 1991 Sep 26;353(6342):308-9.

Why sex exists remains an unsolved problem in biology. If mutations are on the
average deleterious, a high mutation rate can account for the evolution of sex.
One form of this mutational hypothesis is Muller's ratchet. If the mutation rate 
is high, mutation-free individuals become rare and they can be lost by genetic
drift in small populations. In asexual populations, as Muller noted, the loss is 
irreversible and the load of deleterious mutations increases in a ratchet-like
manner with the successive loss of the least-mutated individuals. Sex can be
advantageous because it increases the fitness of sexual populations by
re-creating mutation-free individuals from mutated individuals and stops (or
slows) Muller's ratchet. Although Muller's ratchet is an appealing hypothesis, it
has been investigated and documented experimentally in only one group of
organisms--ciliated protozoa. I initiated a study to examine the role of Muller's
ratchet on the evolution of sex in RNA viruses and report here a significant
decrease in fitness due to Muller's ratchet in 20 lineages of the RNA
bacteriophage phi 6. These results show that deleterious mutations are generated 
at a sufficiently high rate to advance Muller's ratchet in an RNA virus and that 
beneficial, backward and compensatory mutations cannot stop the ratchet in the
observed range of fitness decrease.

DOI: 10.1038/348454a0 
PMID: 2247152  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Nature. 1990 Nov 29;348(6300):452-4.

A human XY female with a frame shift mutation in the candidate testis-determining
gene SRY.

Jäger RJ(1), Anvret M, Hall K, Scherer G.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Genetics, University of Freiburg, Germany.

The primary decision about male or female sexual development of the human embryo 
depends on the presence of the Y chromosome, more specifically on a gene on the Y
chromosome encoding a testis-determining factor, TDF. The human sex-determining
region has been delimited to a 35-kilobase interval near the Y pseudoautosomal
boundary. In this region there is a candidate gene for TDF, termed SRY, which is 
conserved and specific to the Y chromosome in all mammals tested. The
corresponding gene from the mouse Y chromosome is deleted in a line of XY female 
mutant mice, and is expressed at the expected stage during male gonadal
development. We have now identified a mutation in SRY in one out of 12
sex-inversed XY females with gonadal dysgenesis who do not lack large segments of
the short arm of the Y chromosome. The four-nucleotide deletion occurs in a
sequence of SRY encoding a conserved DNA-binding motif and results in a frame
shift presumably leading to a non-functional protein. The mutation occurred de
novo, because the father of the sporadic XY female that bears it has the normal
sequence at the corresponding position. These results provide strong evidence for
SRY being TDF.

DOI: 10.1038/348452a0 
PMID: 2247151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Nature. 1990 Nov 29;348(6300):450-2.

Expression of a candidate sex-determining gene during mouse testis
differentiation.

Koopman P(1), Münsterberg A, Capel B, Vivian N, Lovell-Badge R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Eukaryotic Molecular Genetics, MRC National Institute for
Medical Research, Mill Hill, London, UK.

The development of a eutherian mammal as a male is a consequence of testis
formation in the embryo, which is thought to be initiated by a gene on the Y
chromosome. In the absence of this gene, ovaries are formed and female
characteristics develop. Sex determination therefore hinges on the action of this
testis-determining gene, known as Tdy in mice and TDF in humans. In the past,
several genes proposed as candidates for Tdy/TDF have subsequently been dismissed
on the grounds of inappropriate location or expression. We have recently
described a candidate for Tdy, which maps to the minimum sex-determining region
of the mouse Y chromosome. To examine further the involvement of this gene, Sry, 
in testis development, we have studied its expression in detail. Fetal expression
of Sry is limited to the period in which testes begin to form. This expression is
confined to gonadal tissue and does not require the presence of germ cells. Our
observations strongly support a primary role for Sry in mouse sex determination.

DOI: 10.1038/348450a0 
PMID: 2247150  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Nature. 1990 Nov 29;348(6300):448-50.

Genetic evidence equating SRY and the testis-determining factor.

Berta P(1), Hawkins JR, Sinclair AH, Taylor A, Griffiths BL, Goodfellow PN,
Fellous M.

Author information: 
(1)Human Molecular Genetics, Imperial Cancer Research Fund, London, UK.

The testis-determining factor gene (TDF) lies on the Y chromosome and is
responsible for initiating male sex determination. SRY is a gene located in the
sex-determining region of the human and mouse Y chromosomes and has many of the
properties expected for TDF. Sex reversal in XY females results from the failure 
of the testis determination or differentiation pathways. Some XY females, with
gonadal dysgenesis, have lost the sex-determining region from the Y chromosome by
terminal exchange between the sex chromosomes or by other deletions. If SRY is
TDF, it would be predicted that some sex-reversed XY females, without Y
chromosome deletions, will have suffered mutations in SRY. We have tested human
XY females and normal XY males for alterations in SRY using the single-strand
conformation polymorphism assay and subsequent DNA sequencing. A de novo mutation
was found in the SRY gene of one XY female: this mutation was not present in the 
patient's normal father and brother. A second variant was found in the SRY gene
of another XY female, but in this case the normal father shared the same
alteration. The variant in the second case may be fortuitously associated with,
or predisposing towards sex reversal; the de novo mutation associated with sex
reversal provides compelling evidence that SRY is required for male sex
determination.

DOI: 10.1038/348448A0 
PMID: 2247149  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Nature. 1990 Nov 29;348(6300):446-8.

A nucleoprotein peptide of influenza A virus stimulates assembly of HLA-B27 class
I heavy chains and beta 2-microglobulin translated in vitro.

Kvist S(1), Hamann U.

Author information: 
(1)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, Stockholm, Sweden.

Most cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) recognize epitopes of foreign viral proteins
in association with class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules.
Viral proteins synthesized in the cytoplasm require intracellular fragmentation
and exposure to the class I antigens for the development of CTL responses.
Although indirect evidence for binding of peptides to class I antigens has
accumulated, direct binding has only been shown recently. The formation of
complexes between peptide and class I antigen may occur in the endoplasmic
reticulum (ER) and peptides have been shown to induce assembly of the class I
complex. We have translated the messenger RNAs encoding HLA-B27 (subtype 2705)
and beta 2-microglobulin in a rabbit reticulocyte lysate supplemented with human 
microsomal membranes (to mimic ER membranes), in the absence and presence of a
peptide derived from the nucleoprotein (residues 384-394) of influenza A virus.
This peptide induces CTL activity against target cells expressing the HLA-B27
antigen. Here we report direct evidence that the nucleoprotein peptide promotes
assembly of the HLA-B27 heavy chain and beta 2-microglobulin, and that this can
occur in the ER immediately after synthesis of the two proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/348446a0 
PMID: 2247148  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Nature. 1990 Nov 29;348(6300):443-6.

Non-vesicular release of glutamate from glial cells by reversed electrogenic
glutamate uptake.

Szatkowski M(1), Barbour B, Attwell D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University College London, UK.

Glutamate uptake into nerve and glial cells usually functions to keep the
extracellular glutamate concentration low in the central nervous system. But one 
component of glutamate release from neurons is calcium-independent, suggesting a 
non-vesicular release that may be due to a reversal of glutamate uptake. The
activity of the electrogenic glutamate uptake carrier can be monitored by
measuring the membrane current it produces, and uptake is activated by
intracellular potassium ions. Here we report that raising the potassium
concentration around glial cells evokes an outward current component produced by 
reversed glutamate uptake. This current is activated by intracellular glutamate
and sodium, inhibited by extracellular glutamate and sodium, and increased by
membrane depolarization. These results demonstrate a non-vesicular mechanism for 
the release of glutamate from glial cells and neurons. This mechanism may
contribute to the neurotoxic rise in extracellular glutamate concentration during
brain anoxia.

DOI: 10.1038/348443a0 
PMID: 2247147  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Nature. 1990 Nov 29;348(6300):419-26.

Crystal structure of an HIV-binding recombinant fragment of human CD4.

Ryu SE(1), Kwong PD, Truneh A, Porter TG, Arthos J, Rosenberg M, Dai XP, Xuong
NH, Axel R, Sweet RW, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, Columbia University, New 
York, New York 10032.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Nov 29;348(6300):393-4.

CD4 glycoprotein on the surface of T cells helps in the immune response and is
the receptor for HIV infection. The structure of a soluble fragment of CD4
determined at 2.3 A resolution reveals that the molecule has two intimately
associated immunoglobulin-like domains. Residues implicated in HIV recognition by
analysis of mutants and antibody binding are salient features in domain D1.
Domain D2 is distinguished by a variation on the beta-strand topologies of
antibody domains and by an intra-sheet disulphide bridge.

DOI: 10.1038/348419a0 
PMCID: PMC5638305
PMID: 2247146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Nature. 1990 Nov 29;348(6300):440-2.

Alteration in crossbridge kinetics caused by mutations in actin.

Drummond DR(1), Peckham M, Sparrow JC, White DC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of York, UK.

The generation of force during muscle contraction results from the interaction of
myosin and actin. The kinetics of this force generation vary between different
muscle types and within the same muscle type in different species. Most attention
has focused on the role of myosin isoforms in determining these differences. The 
role of actin isoforms has received little attention, largely because of the lack
of a suitable cell type in which the myosin isoform remains constant yet the
actin isoforms vary. An alternative approach would be to examine the effect of
actin mutations, however, most of these cause such gross disruption of muscle
structure that mechanical measurements are impossible. We have now identified two
actin mutations which, despite involving conserved amino acids, can assemble into
virtually normal myofibrils. These amino-acid changes in actin significantly
affect the kinetics of force generation by muscle fibres. One of the mutations is
not in the putative myosin-binding site, demonstrating the importance of
long-range effects of amino acids on actin function.

DOI: 10.1038/348440a0 
PMID: 2123302  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Nature. 1990 Nov 29;348(6300):455-8.

The mitochondrial chaperonin hsp60 is required for its own assembly.

Cheng MY(1), Hartl FU, Horwich AL.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Human Genetics, Yale School of 
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06510.

Heatshock protein 60 (hsp60) in the matrix of mitochondria is essential for the
folding and assembly of newly imported proteins. Hsp60 belongs to a class of
structurally related chaperonins found in organelles of endosymbiotic origin and 
in the bacterial cytosol. Hsp60 monomers form a complex arranged as two stacked
7-mer rings. This 14-mer complex binds unfolded proteins at its surface, then
seems to catalyse their folding in an ATP-dependent process. The question arises 
as to how such an assembly machinery is itself folded and assembled. Hsp60
subunits are encoded by a nuclear gene and translated in the cytosol as
precursors which are translocated into mitochondria and proteolytically
processed. In both intact cells and isolated mitochondria of the hsp60-defective 
yeast mutant mif4, self-assembly of newly imported wild-type subunits is not
observed. Functional pre-existing hsp60 complex is required in order to form new,
assembled, 14-mer. Subunits imported in vitro are assembled with a surprisingly
fast half-time of 5-10 min, indicative of a catalysed reaction. These findings
are further evidence that self-assembly may not be the principal mechanism by
which proteins attain their functional conformation in the intact cell.

DOI: 10.1038/348455a0 
PMID: 1978929  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Nature. 1990 Nov 29;348(6300):411-8.

Atomic structure of a fragment of human CD4 containing two immunoglobulin-like
domains.

Wang JH(1), Yan YW, Garrett TP, Liu JH, Rodgers DW, Garlick RL, Tarr GE, Husain
Y, Reinherz EL, Harrison SC.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard University, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Nov 29;348(6300):393-4.

The structure of an N-terminal fragment of CD4 has been determined to 2.4 A
resolution. It has two tightly abutting domains connected by a continuous beta
strand. Both have the immunoglobulin fold, but domain 2 has a truncated beta
barrel and a non-standard disulphide bond. The binding sites for monoclonal
antibodies, class II major histocompatibility complex molecules, and human
immunodeficiency virus gp120 can be mapped on the molecular surface.

DOI: 10.1038/348411a0 
PMID: 1701030  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Nature. 1990 Nov 22;348(6299):346-8.

Force generation of organelle transport measured in vivo by an infrared laser
trap.

Ashkin A(1), Schütze K, Dziedzic JM, Euteneuer U, Schliwa M.

Author information: 
(1)Laser Science Research Department, AT&T Bell Laboratories, Holmdel, New Jersey
07733.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Nov 22;348(6299):284-5.

Organelle transport along microtubules is believed to be mediated by
organelle-associated force-generating molecules. Two classes of microtubule-based
organelle motors have been identified: kinesin and cytoplasmic dynein. To
correlate the mechanochemical basis of force generation with the in vivo
behaviour of organelles, it is important to quantify the force needed to propel
an organelle along microtubules and to determine the force generated by a single 
motor molecule. Measurements of force generation are possible under selected
conditions in vitro, but are much more difficult using intact or reactivated
cells. Here we combine a useful model system for the study of organelle
transport, the giant amoeba Reticulomyxa, with a novel technique for the
non-invasive manipulation of and force application to subcellular components,
which is based on a gradient-force optical trap, also referred to as 'optical
tweezers'. We demonstrate the feasibility of using controlled manipulation of
actively translocating organelles to measure direct force. We have determined the
force driving a single organelle along microtubules, allowing us to estimate the 
force generated by a single motor to be 2.6 x 10(-7) dynes.

DOI: 10.1038/348346a0 
PMID: 2250707  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Nature. 1990 Nov 22;348(6299):337-9.

Loss of photosynthetic and chlororespiratory genes from the plastid genome of a
parasitic flowering plant.

dePamphilis CW(1), Palmer JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Indiana University, Bloomington 47405.

Photosynthesis is the hallmark of plant life and is the only plastid metabolic
process known to be controlled by plastid genes. The complete loss of
photosynthetic ability, however, has occurred on several independent occasions in
parasitic flowering plants. Some of these plants are known to lack chlorophyll
and certain photosynthetic enzymes, but it is not known to what extent changes
have occurred in the genes encoding the photosynthetic apparatus or whether the
plants even maintain a plastid genome. Here we report that the nonphotosynthetic 
root parasite Epifagus virginiana has a plastid chromosome only 71 kilobases in
size, far smaller than any previously characterized land plant plastid genome.
The Epifagus plastid genome has lost most, if not all, of the 30 or more
chloroplast genes for photosynthesis and most of a large family of plastid genes,
the ndh genes, whose products may be involved in a plastid respiratory chain. The
extensive changes in Epifagus plastid gene content must have occurred in a
relatively short time (5-50 x 10(6) yr), because Striga asiatica, a related
photosynthetic parasite, has a typical complement of chloroplast genes for
photosynthesis and chlororespiration. The plastid genome of Epifagus has retained
transcribed ribosomal RNA and ribosomal protein genes, suggesting that it
expresses one or more gene products for plastid functions not related to
photosynthesis.

DOI: 10.1038/348337a0 
PMID: 2250706  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Nature. 1990 Nov 22;348(6299):334-6.

Bcl-2 is an inner mitochondrial membrane protein that blocks programmed cell
death.

Hockenbery D(1), Nuñez G, Milliman C, Schreiber RD, Korsmeyer SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Washington University
School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110.

The t(14; 18) chromosomal translocation of human follicular B-cell lymphoma
juxtaposes the bcl-2 gene with the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus. The bcl-2
immunoglobulin fusion gene is markedly deregulated resulting in inappropriately
elevated levels of bcl-2 RNA and protein. Transgenic mice bearing a bcl-2
immunoglobulin minigene demonstrate a polyclonal expansion of resting yet
responsive IgM-IgD B cells which display prolonged cell survival but no increase 
in cell cycling. Moreover, deregulated bcl-2 extends the survival of certain
haematopoietic cell lines following growth-factor deprivation. By using
immunolocalization studies we now demonstrate that Bcl-2 is an integral inner
mitochondrial membrane protein of relative molecular mass 25,000 (25k).
Overexpression of Bcl-2 blocks the apoptotic death of a pro-B-lymphocyte cell
line. Thus, Bcl-2 is unique among proto-oncogenes, being localized to
mitochondria and interfering with programmed cell death independent of promoting 
cell division.

DOI: 10.1038/348334a0 
PMID: 2250705  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Nature. 1990 Nov 22;348(6299):331-3.

Novel primitive lymphoid tumours induced in transgenic mice by cooperation
between myc and bcl-2.

Strasser A(1), Harris AW, Bath ML, Cory S.

Author information: 
(1)Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, Royal Melbourne Hospital,
Victoria, Australia.

The putative oncogene bcl-2 is juxtaposed to the immunoglobulin heavy chain (Igh)
locus by the t(14;18) chromosomal translocation typical of human follicular
B-cell lymphomas. The bcl-2 gene product is not altered by the translocation, but
its expression is deregulated, presumably by the Igh enhancer E mu. Constitutive 
bcl-2 expression seems to augment cell survival, as infection with a bcl-2
retrovirus enables certain growth factor-dependent mouse cell lines to maintain
viability when deprived of factor. Furthermore, high levels of the bcl-2 product 
can protect human B and T lymphoblasts under stress and thereby confer a growth
advantage. Mice expressing a bcl-2 transgene controlled by the Igh enhancer
accumulate small non-cycling B cells which survive unusually well in vitro but do
not show a propensity for spontaneous tumorigenesis. In contrast, an analogous
myc transgene, designed to mimic the myc-Igh translocation product typical of
Burkitt's lymphoma and rodent plasmacytoma, promotes B lymphoid cell
proliferation and predisposes mice to malignancy in pre-B and B lymphoid cells.
Previous experiments have suggested that bcl-2 can cooperate with deregulated myc
to improve in vitro growth of pre-B and B cells. Here we describe a marked
synergy between bcl-2 and myc in doubly transgenic mice. E mu-bcl-2/myc mice show
hyperproliferation of pre-B and B cells and develop tumours much faster than E
mu-myc mice. Suprisingly, the tumours derive from a cell with the hallmarks of a 
primitive haemopoietic cell, perhaps a lymphoid-committed stem cell.

DOI: 10.1038/348331a0 
PMID: 2250704  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Nature. 1990 Nov 22;348(6299):328-31.

Influence of colour on the perception of coherent motion.

Krauskopf J(1), Farell B.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Science, New York University, New York 10003.

We have colour vision because there are three types of cone photoreceptors which 
are maximally sensitive in the long (L), middle (M) and short (S) wavelength
regions of the spectrum. Psychophysical experiments have, however, revealed
mechanisms selectively responsive to light modulated in three 'cardinal
directions' in colour space. The responses of these mechanisms are determined by 
algebraic sums of the excitations of the cones. One of these mechanisms is
responsive to changes in luminance, its spectral sensitivity being that of the
sum of the L and M cones. The other two respond best to isoluminant changes in
light. The responses of one of these mechanisms are determined by the difference 
in the excitations of the L and M cones, and those of the other one determined by
the difference between the excitation of the S cones on the one hand and the
excitations of the L and M cones on the other. We have obtained quite surprising 
results concerning the role of these mechanisms in the perception of motion.
Drifting gratings modulated along different cardinal directions appear to slip
with respect to one another. In contrast, when the directions of the modulations 
are rotated by 45 degrees in colour space, the gratings cohere. Our results are
consistent with the notion that information about movement is analysed within
mechanisms maximally responsive along the cardinal directions.

DOI: 10.1038/348328a0 
PMID: 2250703  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Nature. 1990 Nov 22;348(6299):348-52.

Bead movement by single kinesin molecules studied with optical tweezers.

Block SM(1), Goldstein LS, Schnapp BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Rowland Institute for Science, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Nov 22;348(6299):284-5.

Kinesin, a mechanoenzyme that couples ATP hydrolysis to movement along
microtubules, is thought to power vesicle transport and other forms of
microtubule-based motility. Here, microscopic silica beads were precoated with
carrier protein, exposed to low concentrations of kinesin, and individually
manipulated with a single-beam gradient-force optical particle trap ('optical
tweezers') directly onto microtubules. Optical tweezers greatly improved the
efficiency of the bead assay, particularly at the lowest kinesin concentrations
(corresponding to approximately 1 molecule per bead). Beads incubated with excess
kinesin moved smoothly along a microtubule for many micrometres, but beads
carrying from 0.17-3 kinesin molecules per bead, moved, on average, only about
1.4 microns and then spontaneously released from the microtubule. Application of 
the optical trap directly behind such moving beads often pulled them off the
microtubule and back into the centre of the trap. This did not occur when a bead 
was bound by an AMP.PNP-induced rigor linkage, or when beads were propelled by
several kinesin molecules. Our results are consistent with a model in which
kinesin detaches briefly from the microtubule during a part of each
mechanochemical cycle, rather than a model in which kinesin remains bound at all 
times.

DOI: 10.1038/348348a0 
PMID: 2174512  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Nature. 1990 Nov 22;348(6299):344-6.

Mediation of virion penetration into vascular cells by association of basic
fibroblast growth factor with herpes simplex virus type 1.

Baird A(1), Florkiewicz RZ, Maher PA, Kaner RJ, Hajjar DP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Growth Biology, Whittler Institute for
Diabetes and Endocrinology, La Jolla, California 92037.

Herpes simplex virus type-1 (HSV-1) is a ubiquitous pathogen that is associated
with considerable morbidity in the general population. Although it is known that 
the virion uses a basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptor to penetrate
vascular cells, it is not known how the viral particle recognizes and binds to
this cell surface protein. Here we report that an immunoreactive basic FGF-like
protein is associated with the viral particle and that this association appears
responsible for viral uptake. Accordingly, HSV-1 infection of Swiss 3T3 cells
stimulates the tyrosine phosphorylation of the specific substrate that
characterizes the initial cellular response to basic FGF. Antibodies to basic FGF
prevent this phosphorylation and inhibit HSV-1 uptake. Because no basic FGF
sequence is found in the HSV-1 genome, a model for the infection for some target 
cells is presented whereby the viral particle uses host cell-derived basic FGF to
ensure subsequent infectivity of newly replicated virus.

DOI: 10.1038/348344a0 
PMID: 2174511  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Nature. 1990 Nov 22;348(6299):302-8.

The molecular mechanism by which insulin stimulates glycogen synthesis in
mammalian skeletal muscle.

Dent P(1), Lavoinne A, Nakielny S, Caudwell FB, Watt P, Cohen P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Dundee, Scotland, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Nov 22;348(6299):286-7.

The ability of insulin to promote the phosphorylation of some proteins and the
dephosphorylation of others is paradoxical. An insulin-stimulated protein kinase 
is shown to activate the type-1 protein phosphatase that controls glycogen
metabolism, by phosphorylating its regulatory subunit at a specific serine.
Furthermore, the phosphorylation of this residue is stimulated by insulin in
vivo. Increased and decreased phosphorylation of proteins by insulin can
therefore be explained through the same basic underlying mechanism.

DOI: 10.1038/348302a0 
PMID: 2123524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Nature. 1990 Nov 22;348(6299):339-42.

(Mg-ATP)-dependent self-assembly of molecular chaperone GroEL.

Lissin NM(1), Venyaminov SYu, Girshovich AS.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Protein Research, Academy of Sciences of the USSR, Moscow Region.

The important Escherichia coli heat-shock protein GroEL of relative molecular
mass 57,259 is a typical molecular chaperone. It possesses ATPase activity and
interacts in ATP-driven reactions with non-folded proteins to stimulate their
correct folding and/or assembly by preventing the formation of improper protein
structures or aggregates. As GroEL is isolated and functions as a 20-25S
tetradecameric particle (GroELp), the question arises--what is the mechanism of
its own assembly? Here we show the (Mg-ATP)-dependent self-stimulation
('self-chaperoning') in vitro of GroELp reassembly from its monomeric state.

DOI: 10.1038/348339a0 
PMID: 1979147  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Nature. 1990 Nov 22;348(6299):308-12.

Targets of homeotic gene control in Drosophila.

Gould AP(1), Brookman JJ, Strutt DI, White RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Cambridge, UK.

Erratum in
    Nature 1990 Dec 6;348(6301):560.

The homeotic gene Ultrabithorax (Ubx) encodes homeodomain-containing
transcription factors that determine segmental identity in Drosophila. Here, an
immunopurification procedure is described that enriches for embryonic chromatin
fragments containing binding sites for Ubx protein. In two cases these binding
sites are located near embryonic transcription units regulated by the Ubx locus
in vivo. Thus, these transcripts may correspond to Ubx target genes involved in
elaborating segment-specific developmental pathways.

DOI: 10.1038/348308a0 
PMID: 1979146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Nature. 1990 Nov 22;348(6299):342-4.

Induction of RNA-stabilized DNA conformers by transcription of an immunoglobulin 
switch region.

Reaban ME(1), Griffin JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Alabama, Birmingham 35294.

Comment in
    Nature. 1991 Jun 6;351(6326):447-8.

A deletion DNA rearrangement is associated with immunoglobulin class switching
from IgM to IgG, IgA or IgE This recombination occurs in immunoglobulin switch
regions, which are complex, highly repetitive regions of DNA. As switch regions
become transcriptionally active just before switch recombination, analysis of the
behaviour of these sequences during transcription could elucidate the mechanism
of switch recombination. Here, we report that transcription of a supercoiled
plasmid containing the murine IgA switch region (S alpha) leads to a loss of
superhelical turns. The resulting series of less supercoiled plasmids is
stabilized by RNA-DNA hybrids formed by the nascent RNA transcripts, which remain
base-paired with their DNA templates.

DOI: 10.1038/348342a0 
PMID: 1701219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Nature. 1990 Nov 15;348(6298):263-6.

A mutant T4 lysozyme displays five different crystal conformations.

Faber HR(1), Matthews BW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Oregon, Eugene 97403.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Nov 15;348(6298):198-9.

Phage T4 lysozyme consists of two domains between which is formed the active-site
cleft of the enzyme. The crystallographically determined thermal displacement
parameters for the protein suggested that the amino terminal of the two domains
undergoes 'hinge-bending' motion about an axis passing through the waist of the
molecule. Such conformational mobility may be important in allowing access of
substrates to the active site of the enzyme. We report here a crystallographic
study of a mutant T4 lysozyme which demonstrates further the conformational
flexibility of the protein. A mutant form of the enzyme with a methionine residue
(Met 6) replaced by isoleucine crystallizes with four independent molecules in
the crystal lattice. These four molecules have distinctly different
conformations. The mutant protein can also crystallize in standard form with a
structure very similar to the wild-type protein. Thus the mutant protein can
adopt five different crystal conformations. The isoleucine for methionine
substitution at the intersection of the two domains of T4 lysozyme apparently
enhances the hinge-bending motion presumed to occur in the wild-type protein,
without significantly affecting the catalytic activity or thermal stability of
the protein.

DOI: 10.1038/348263a0 
PMID: 2234094  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Nature. 1990 Nov 15;348(6298):257-60.

Structure, expression and function of a schwannoma-derived growth factor.

Kimura H(1), Fischer WH, Schubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Salk Institute for Biological Studies, San Diego, California 92186-5800.

During the development of the nervous system, cells require growth factors that
regulate their division and survival. To identify new growth factors, serum-free 
growth-conditioned media from many clonal cell lines were screened for the
presence of mitogens for central nervous system glial cells. A cell line
secreting a potent glial mitogen was established from a tumour (or 'schwannoma') 
derived from the sheath of the sciatic nerve. The cells of the tumour, named JS1 
cells, were adapted to clonal culture and identified as Schwann cells. Schwann
cells secrete an autocrine mitogen and human schwannoma extracts have mitogenic
activity on glial cells. Until now, neither mitogen has been purified. Here we
report the purification and characterization of a mitogenic molecule, designated 
schwannoma-derived growth factor (SDGF), from the growth-conditioned medium of
the JS1 Schwann cell line. SDGF belongs to the epidermal growth factor family,
and is an autocrine growth factor as well as a mitogen for astrocytes, Schwann
cells and fibroblasts.

DOI: 10.1038/348257a0 
PMID: 2234093  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Nature. 1990 Nov 15;348(6298):248-51.

Cellular peptide composition governed by major histocompatibility complex class I
molecules.

Falk K(1), Rötzschke O, Rammensee HG.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Immungenetik, Max-Planck-Institut für Biologie, Tübingen, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Nov 15;348(6298):195-7.

Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules present peptides derived
from cellular proteins to cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs), which check these
peptides for abnormal features. How such peptides arise in the cell is not known.
Here we show that the MHC molecules themselves are substantially involved in
determining which peptides occur intracellularly: normal mouse spleen cells
identical at all genes but MHC class I express different patterns of peptides
derived from cellular non-MHC proteins. We suggest several models to explain this
influence of MHC class I molecules on cellular peptide composition.

DOI: 10.1038/348248a0 
PMID: 2234092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Nature. 1990 Nov 15;348(6298):237-9.

New Sivapithecus humeri from Pakistan and the relationship of Sivapithecus and
Pongo.

Pilbeam D(1), Rose MD, Barry JC, Shah SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, Peabody Museum, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138.

New humeri of two species of the Miocene hominoid Sivapithecus are described from
near Chinji in Pakistan from between approximately 9 and 11 Myr ago.
Sivapithecus, a middle and late Miocene hominoid from Turkey and Indo-Pakistan,
is overall unlike any living hominoid, although facial-palatal similarities to
the extant orangoutan, Pongo, have been used to support a hypothesis of close
relationship. Living hominoids have postcranial similarities assumed to be shared
derived, among them features of the proximal humerus. However, the new
Sivapithecus proximal humeri differ from those of living hominoids, supporting an
alternative hypothesis in which Sivapithecus and Pongo are not closely related.
It is not clear how to choose between these incompatible hypotheses.

DOI: 10.1038/348237a0 
PMID: 2234091  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


61. Nature. 1990 Nov 15;348(6298):217-21.

Molecular structure of F-actin and location of surface binding sites.

Milligan RA(1), Whittaker M, Safer D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Research Institute of Scripps Clinic, La
Jolla, California 92037.

Comparisons of three-dimensional maps of vertebrate muscle thin filaments
obtained by cryo-electron microscopy and image analysis, reveal the molecular
structure of F-actin, the location of the C terminus of the monomer and the
positions of the binding sites of tropomyosin, the myosin head and the N-terminal
portion of the myosin A1 light chain on the filament. These data provide strong
constraints for evaluating models built from the atomic structure of the monomer 
and the subsequent identification of molecular contacts.

DOI: 10.1038/348217a0 
PMID: 2234090  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Nature. 1990 Nov 15;348(6298):242-5.

Modulation of glycine receptor chloride channels by cAMP-dependent protein kinase
in spinal trigeminal neurons.

Song YM(1), Huang LY.

Author information: 
(1)Marine Biomedical Institute, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston
77550.

Glycine is an important inhibitory transmitter in the brainstem and spinal cord. 
In the trigeminal subnucleus caudalis (medullary dorsal horn) and in the spinal
dorsal horn (the relaying centres for processing pain and sensory information),
glycine inhibits the glutamate-evoked depolarization and depresses firing of
neurons. The binding of glycine to its receptor produces a large increase in Cl- 
conductance, which causes membrane hyperpolarization. The selectivity and gating 
properties of glycine receptor channels have been well characterized; the glycine
receptor molecules have also been purified. The amino-acid sequence, deduced from
complementary DNA clones encoding one of the peptides (the 48K subunit), shows
significant homology with gamma-aminobutyric acid A (GABAA) and nicotinic
acetylcholine receptor subunits, suggesting that glycine receptors may belong to 
a superfamily of chemically gated channel proteins. However, very little is known
about the modulation of glycine receptor channels. We have investigated the
regulation of strychnine-sensitive glycine receptor channels by cyclic
AMP-dependent protein kinase in neurons isolated from spinal trigeminal nucleus
of rat and report here that the protein kinase A dramatically increased the
glycine-induced Cl- currents by increasing the probability of the channel
openings. GS protein, which is sensitive to cholera toxin, was involved in the
modulation.

DOI: 10.1038/348242a0 
PMID: 2172840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Nature. 1990 Nov 15;348(6298):239-42.

Activation of facilitation calcium channels in chromaffin cells by D1 dopamine
receptors through a cAMP/protein kinase A-dependent mechanism.

Artalejo CR(1), Ariano MA, Perlman RL, Fox AP.

Author information: 
(1)University of Chicago, Department of Pharmacological and Physiological
Sciences, Illinois.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Nov 15;348(6298):192-3.

Facilitation calcium channels in unstimulated bovine chromaffin cells are
normally quiescent but are activated by large pre-depolarizations or by
repetitive depolarization in the physiological range. The activation of these
27-pS dihydropyridine-sensitive channels by repetitive stimulation, such as by
increased splanchnic nerve activity, can lead to an almost twofold increase in
Ca2+ current in these cells. This increase in Ca2+ current is of probable
physiological importance in stimulating rapid catecholamine secretion in response
to danger or stress. We have identified D1 dopaminergic receptors on bovine
chromaffin cells by fluorescence microscopy. Here we show that stimulation of the
D1 receptors activates the facilitation Ca2+ currents in the absence of
pre-depolarizations or repetitive activity, and that activation by D1 agonists is
mediated by cyclic AMP and protein kinase A. The recruitment of facilitation Ca2+
channels by dopamine may form the basis of a positive feedback loop mechanism for
catecholamine secretion.

DOI: 10.1038/348239a0 
PMID: 2172839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Nature. 1990 Nov 15;348(6298):245-8.

Circulating CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes specific for HTLV-I pX in patients with 
HTLV-I associated neurological disease.

Jacobson S(1), Shida H, McFarlin DE, Fauci AS, Koenig S.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroimmunology Branch, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

The human T-lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-I), the first human retrovirus to be 
characterized, is associated with adult T-cell leukaemia and a chronic
progressive disease of the central nervous system termed tropical spastic
paraparesis, or HTLV-I-associated myelopathy. Only 1% of individuals infected
with HTLV-I develop clinical disease however. The various manifestations of an
HTLV-I infection may be related to differences in the genetic backgrounds of
individuals, infection with variant strains of HTLV-I, differences in viral
tropism or host immune response to the virus. Whereas the humoral response to
HTLV-I is well characterized, little is known about the human cellular immune
response, such as the production of cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Here we report the
presence of high levels of circulating HTLV-I-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes in
patients with HTLV-I associated neurological disease but not in HTLV-I
seropositive individuals without neurological involvement. These cytotoxic T
lymphocytes are CD8+, HLA class I- restricted and predominantly recognize the
HTLV-I gene products encoded in the regulatory region pX. These findings suggest 
that HTLV-I-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes may contribute to the pathogenesis
of associated neurological disorders associated with HTLV-I.

DOI: 10.1038/348245a0 
PMID: 2146511  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Nature. 1990 Nov 15;348(6298):261-3.

Mechanosensitive ion channels of E. coli activated by amphipaths.

Martinac B(1), Adler J, Kung C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, University of Wisconsin, Madison 53706.

Mechanosensitive channels have been found in more than 30 cell types, including
bacterial, yeast, plant and animal cells. Whether tension is transferred to the
channel through the lipid bilayer and/or underlying cytoskeleton is not clear.
Using the patch-clamp method, we found that amphipathic compounds, which are
molecules having hydrophobic and hydrophilic character with positive, negative or
no net electric charge at pH 7, could slowly activate the mechanosensitive
channels of giant Escherichia coli spheroplasts, with effectiveness proportional 
to their lipid solubility. The cationic or anionic amphipaths were able to
compensate for each other's effect. After a channel was activated by an amphipath
of one charge, if that amphipath was gradually replaced by one with the opposite 
charge, the channel first inactivated before reactivating. These findings support
the view that the mechanical gating force can come from the surrounding lipids.

DOI: 10.1038/348261a0 
PMID: 1700306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Nature. 1990 Nov 15;348(6298):254-7.

Three-dimensional structure of an idiotope-anti-idiotope complex.

Bentley GA(1), Boulot G, Riottot MM, Poljak RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Unité d'Immunologie Structurale, URA 359 CNRS, Département d'Immunologie,
Institut Pasteur, Paris, France.

Serologically detected antigenic determinants unique to an antibody or group of
antibodies are called idiotopes. The sum of idiotopes of an antibody constitute
its idiotype. Idiotypes have been intensively studied following a hypothesis for 
the self-regulation of the immune system through a network of
idiotype-anti-idiotype interactions. Furthermore, as antigen and anti-idiotypes
can competitively bind to idiotype-positive, antigen-specific antibodies,
anti-idiotypes may carry an 'internal image' of the external antigen. Here we
describe the structure of the complex between the monoclonal anti-lysozyme
FabD1.3 and the anti-idiotopic FabE225 at 2.5 A resolution. This complex defines 
a private idiotope consisting of 13 amino-acid residues, mainly from the
complementarity-determining regions of D1.3. Seven of these residues make
contacts with the antigen, indicating a significant overlap between idiotope and 
antigen-combining site. Idiotopic mimicry of the external antigen is not achieved
at the molecular level in this example.

DOI: 10.1038/348254a0 
PMID: 1700305  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Nature. 1990 Nov 15;348(6298):252-4.

Isolation and analysis of naturally processed viral peptides as recognized by
cytotoxic T cells.

Rötzschke O(1), Falk K, Deres K, Schild H, Norda M, Metzger J, Jung G, Rammensee 
HG.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Biologie, Abteilung Immungenetik, Tübingen, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Nov 15;348(6298):195-7.

Virus-infected cells can be eliminated by cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL), which
recognize virus-derived peptides bound to major histocompatibility complex (MHC) 
class I molecules on the cell surface. Until now, this notion has relied on
overwhelming but indirect evidence, as the existence of naturally processed viral
peptides has not been previously reported. Here we show that such peptides can be
extracted from virus-infected cells by acid elution. Both the naturally processed
H-2-Db-restricted and H-2-Kd-restricted peptides from influenza nucleoprotein are
smaller than the corresponding synthetic peptides, which have first been used to 
determine the respective CTL epitopes. As with minor histocompatibility antigens,
occurrence of viral peptides seems to be heavily dependent on MHC class I
molecules, because infected H-2d cells do not contain the H-2-Db-restricted
peptide, and infected H-2b cells do not contain the H-2-Kd-restricted peptide.
Our data provide direct experimental proof for the above notion on MHC-associated
viral peptides on virus-infected cells.

DOI: 10.1038/348252a0 
PMID: 1700304  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Nature. 1990 Nov 15;348(6298):213-6.

Isolation of an endogenously processed immunodominant viral peptide from the
class I H-2Kb molecule.

Van Bleek GM(1), Nathenson SG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New
York 10461.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Nov 15;348(6298):195-7.

Using an approach for isolating and characterizing peptide fractions that are
intracellularly associated with major histocompatibility complex class I
molecules, the major peptide recognized by cytotoxic T cells specific for the
vesicular stomatitis virus has been isolated from the H-2Kb molecule of infected 
cells. This endogenously processed octapeptide is allele-specific as it does not 
bind to H-2Db molecules, and contains the core sequence of the epitope of the
nucleocapsid protein of the vesicular stomatitis virus identified by testing with
exogenous synthetic peptides.

DOI: 10.1038/348213a0 
PMID: 1700303  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Nature. 1990 Nov 8;348(6297):157-60.

Comet dust as a source of amino acids at the Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary.

Zahnle K(1), Grinspoon D.

Collaborators: Zahnle K(2).

Author information: 
(1)NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, California 94035, USA.
(2)ARC

Large amounts of apparently extraterrestrial amino acids have been detected
recently in rocks at the Cretaceous/Tertiary (K/T) boundary at Stevns Klint,
Denmark. The amino acids were found a few tens of centimetres above and below the
boundary layer, but were absent in the boundary clay itself. If one supposes that
these compounds were carried to the Earth by the giant meteorite thought to have 
impacted at the end of the Cretaceous, some puzzling questions are raised: why
weren't the amino acids incinerated in the impact, and why are they not present
in the boundary clay itself? Here we suggest that the amino acids were actually
deposited with the dust from a giant comet trapped in the inner Solar System, a
fragment of which comprised the K/T impactor. Amino acids or their precursors in 
the comet dust would have been swept up by the Earth both before and after the
impact, but any conveyed by the impactor itself would have been destroyed. The
observed amino acid layers would thus have been deposited without an impact.

DOI: 10.1038/348157a0 
PMID: 11536472  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Nature. 1990 Nov 8;348(6297):178-80.

Bidirectional incompatibility between conspecific populations of Drosophila
simulans.

O'Neill SL(1), Karr TL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology, University of Illinois, Urbana 61801.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Nov 8;348(6297):117.

Cytoplasmic incompatibility (CI) describes the phenomenon whereby eggs fertilized
by sperm from insects infected with a rickettsial endosymbiont fail to hatch.
Unidirectional CI between conspecific populations of insects is a well documented
phenomenon. Bidirectional CI has, however, only been described in mosquito
populations, and recently between closely related species of parasitic wasps,
where it is of interest as both an unusual form of reproductive isolation and as 
a potential means of insect population suppression. Here we report on the first
known example of bidirectional CI between conspecific populations of Drosophila
simulans. Further, we show that defects as early as the first cleavage division
are associated with CI. This observation suggests that the cellular basis of CI
involves disruption of processes before or during zygote formation and that CI
arises from defects in the structure and/or function of the sperm during
fertilization.

DOI: 10.1038/348178a0 
PMID: 2234083  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Nature. 1990 Nov 8;348(6297):176-8.

An unusually large multifunctional polypeptide in the erythromycin-producing
polyketide synthase of Saccharopolyspora erythraea.

Cortes J(1), Haydock SF, Roberts GA, Bevitt DJ, Leadlay PF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Cambridge, UK.

Erythromycin A, a clinically important polyketide antibiotic, is produced by the 
Gram-positive bacterium Saccharopolyspora erythraea. In an arrangement that seems
to be generally true of antibiotic biosynthetic genes in Streptomyces and related
bacteria like S. erythraea, the ery genes encoding the biosynthetic pathway to
erythromycin are clustered around the gene (ermE) that confers self-resistance on
S. erythraea. The aglycone core of erythromycin A is derived from one
propionyl-CoA and six methylmalonyl-CoA units, which are incorporated
head-to-tail into the growing polyketide chain, in a process similar to that of
fatty-acid biosynthesis, to generate a macrolide intermediate,
6-deoxyerythronolide B. 6-Deoxyerythronolide B is converted into erythromycin A
through the action of specific hydroxylases, glycosyltransferases and a
methyltransferase. We report here the analysis of about 10 kilobases of DNA from 
S. erythraea, cloned by chromosome 'walking' outwards from the
erythromycin-resistance determinant ermE, and previously shown to be essential
for erythromycin biosynthesis. Partial sequencing of this region indicates that
it encodes the synthase. Our results confirm this, and reveal a novel
organization of the erythromycin-producing polyketide synthase, which provides
further insight into the mechanism of chain assembly.

DOI: 10.1038/348176a0 
PMID: 2234082  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Nature. 1990 Nov 8;348(6297):171-3.

Gene replacement in parasitic protozoa.

Cruz A(1), Beverley SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Nov 8;348(6297):109.

Trypanosomatid protozoa frequently cause severe diseases in humans. Many
molecules likely to have a role during the infectious cycle have been identified,
yet proof of their function is often lacking. We describe studies in Leishmania
major of homologous gene targeting, a powerful method for testing gene function
in other organisms. Following introduction of a construct containing
dihydrofolate reductase-thymidylate synthase (dhfr-ts) flanking sequences fused
to neomycin phosphotransferase, 45% of the colonies contained the planned
homologous replacement; this frequency rose to nearly 100% in transfections using
low amounts of DNA. Integrative transfection in Leishmania thus resembles that of
Saccharomyces cerevisiae in giving predominantly homologous events. To facilitate
studies of folate metabolism and chemotherapy the sole dhfr-ts copy in a
heterozygous deletion line was replaced, yielding lines that were functionally
DHFR-TS-. Although most genes are diploid in trypanosomatids, methods exploiting 
the high frequency of homologous recombination should permit complete replacement
of any parasite gene.

DOI: 10.1038/348171a0 
PMID: 2234081  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Nature. 1990 Nov 8;348(6297):169-71.

Limitation of the size of the vulval primordium of Caenorhabditis elegans by
lin-15 expression in surrounding hypodermis.

Herman RK(1), Hedgecock EM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Cell Biology, University of Minnesota, St Paul
55108.

In the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans six hypodermal cells, the vulval precursor
cells, are each competent to generate vulval cells. Normally only the three
nearest precursor cells to the uterine anchor cell generate the vulva (22
nuclei), while the three others fuse with the non-specialized hypodermal
syncytium (hyp7) surrounding each precursor cell and covering the body. Without
an inductive signal from the anchor cell, all six vulval precursor cells fuse
with hyp7 and no vulva is formed. But without activity of the vulval
determination gene lin-15(+), all six cells undergo vulval divisions whether the 
anchor cell is present or not. Using mosaic analysis, we demonstrate here that
lin-15(+) expression is necessary in cells other than the vulval precursor cells 
or the anchor cell, most probably in the hyp7 syncytium. We propose that
lin-15(+) is active in hyp7 in order to repress an intrinsic vulval program in
the precursor cells. The inductive signal from the anchor cell counteracts this
repression for three precursor cells, allowing them to generate vulval cells.
Such a two-signal (repressor/derepressor) mechanism may operate in other cases of
tissue induction.

DOI: 10.1038/348169a0 
PMID: 2234080  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Nature. 1990 Nov 8;348(6297):166-8.

Reduced levels of hsp90 compromise steroid receptor action in vivo.

Picard D(1), Khursheed B, Garabedian MJ, Fortin MG, Lindquist S, Yamamoto KR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California, San
Francisco 94143-0448.

Signalling by steroid hormones is mediated by receptor proteins that bind
hormonal ligands and regulate the transcription of specific genes. The heat-shock
protein hsp90 seems to associate selectively with unliganded receptors
(aporeceptors), but it has not been determined whether this interaction affects
receptor function in vivo. To address the role of hsp90, we have taken advantage 
of the capacity of mammalian steroid receptors to function in yeast. We
constructed a strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae in which hsp90 expression was
regulatable and could be reduced more than 20-fold relative to wild type. At low 
levels of hsp90, aporeceptors seem to be mostly hsp90-free, yet fail to enhance
transcription; on hormone addition, the receptors are activated but with markedly
reduced efficiency. Thus hsp90 does not inhibit receptor function solely by
steric interference; rather, hsp90 seems to facilitate the subsequent response of
the aporeceptor to the hormonal signal. This is the first biological evidence
that hsp90 acts in the signal transduction pathway for steroid receptors.

DOI: 10.1038/348166a0 
PMID: 2234079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Nature. 1990 Nov 8;348(6297):160-2.

The role of disparity-sensitive cortical neurons in signalling the direction of
self-motion.

Roy JP(1), Wurtz RH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sensorimotor Research, National Eye Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Nov 8;348(6297):115.

Movement of an observer through the environment generates motion on the retina.
This optic flow provides information about the direction of self-motion, but only
if it contains differential motion of elements at different depths. If the
observer tracks a stationary object while moving in a direction different from
his line of sight, the images of objects in the foreground and in the background 
move in opposite directions. We have found neurons in the cerebral cortex of
monkeys that prefer one direction of motion when the disparity of a stimulus
corresponds to foreground motion and prefer the opposite direction when the
disparity corresponds to background motion. We propose that these neurons
contribute a signal about the direction of self-motion.

DOI: 10.1038/348160a0 
PMID: 2234078  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Nature. 1990 Nov 8;348(6297):137-43.

Requirement for hsp70 in the mitochondrial matrix for translocation and folding
of precursor proteins.

Kang PJ(1), Ostermann J, Shilling J, Neupert W, Craig EA, Pfanner N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiological Chemistry, University of Wisconsin, Madison 53706.

By analysis of a temperature-sensitive yeast mutant, a heat-shock protein in the 
matrix of mitochondria, mitochondrial hsp70 (Ssc1p), is found to be involved both
in translocation of nuclear-encoded precursor proteins across the mitochondrial
membranes and in (re)folding of imported proteins in the matrix.

DOI: 10.1038/348137a0 
PMID: 2234077  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Nature. 1990 Nov 8;348(6297):174-5.

Targeted insertion of the neomycin phosphotransferase gene into the tubulin gene 
cluster of Trypanosoma brucei.

ten Asbroek AL(1), Ouellette M, Borst P.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Biology, Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Nov 8;348(6297):109.

Kinetoplastids are unicellular eukaryotes that include important parasites of
man, such as trypanosomes and leishmanias. The study of these organisms received 
a recent boost from the development of transient transformation allowing the
short-term expression of genes reintroduced into parasites like Trypanosoma
brucei, the causative agent of African trypanosomiasis. We have obtained
long-term stable transformants of T. brucei that have acquired the ability to
grow in medium containing the drug G418, following the targeted insertion of the 
bacterial gene for neomycin phosphotransferase (neo(r) gene) into the trypanosome
tubulin cluster. Plasmids in which part of the T. brucei tubulin gene cluster has
been replaced by the neo(r) gene were used. Targeting efficiency was higher with 
a linearized than with a circular construct, and with 5 kilobases of tubulin gene
cluster than with 0.9 kilobases. With these neo(r) constructs homologous
recombination seems to be the preferred route for insertion of exogenous DNA into
the trypanosome genome, allowing gene targeting without counter-selection.

DOI: 10.1038/348174a0 
PMID: 2172836  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Nature. 1990 Nov 8;348(6297):162-3.

A human homologue of the yeast HDEL receptor.

Lewis MJ(1), Pelham HR.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, UK.

Retention of resident proteins in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum is
achieved in both yeast and animal cells by their continual retrieval from the
cis-Golgi, or a pre-Golgi compartment. Sorting of these proteins is dependent on 
a C-terminal tetrapeptide signal, usually Lys-Asp-Glu-Leu (KDEL in the single
letter code) in animal cells, His-Asp-Glu-Leu (HDEL) in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
There is evidence that the ERD2 gene encodes the sorting receptor that recognizes
HDEL in yeast; its product is an integral membrane protein of relative molecular 
mass 26,000 (26K) that is not glycosylated. In contrast, Vaux et al. suggest that
the mammalian KDEL receptor is a 72K glycoprotein that they detected using an
anti-idiotypic antibody approach. If this were so, it would indicate a surprising
divergence of the retrieval machinery between yeast and animal cells. We report
here that human cells express a protein similar in sequence, size and properties 
to the ERD2 product, and propose that this protein is the human KDEL receptor.

DOI: 10.1038/348162a0 
PMID: 2172835  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Nature. 1990 Nov 8;348(6297):125-32.

The GTPase superfamily: a conserved switch for diverse cell functions.

Bourne HR(1), Sanders DA, McCormick F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of California, San Francisco 94143.

Proteins that bind and hydrolyse GTP are being discovered at a rapidly increasing
rate. Each of these many GTPases acts as a molecular switch whose 'on' and 'off' 
states are triggered by binding and hydrolysis of GTP. Conserved structure and
mechanism in myriad versions of the switch--in bacteria, yeast, flies and
vertebrates--suggest that all derive from a single primordial protein, repeatedly
modified in the course of evolution to perform a dazzling variety of functions.

DOI: 10.1038/348125a0 
PMID: 2122258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Nature. 1990 Nov 8;348(6297):163-6.

Interconversion of CD45R subsets of CD4 T cells in vivo.

Bell EB(1), Sparshott SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Structural Biology, Medical School, University of
Manchester, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 1991 Jul 4;352(6330):28.

T lymphocytes express multiple forms of the leukocyte common antigen CD45,
transcribed by alternative usage of leukocyte-common antigen exons 4-6.
Species-specific monoclonal antibodies against restricted epitopes (CD45R) of the
antigen subdivide CD4 T cells into reciprocal subsets expressing either the high 
molecular weight isoforms CD45RA or RB or a molecule in which exons 4-6 have been
spliced out (CD45R0). CD45R+ or RB+ CD4 T cells are potent in graft-versus-host
reactions, and interleukin-2 related activities, whereas the CD45R0+ subset
responds in vitro to recall antigens and provides help for antibody synthesis. It
is unclear whether CD45R subsets derive from separate lineages, or are products
of unidirectional or reversible differentiation. We show by transferring CD45R+
or CD45R- allotype-marked CD4 T cells into athymic nude rats that both subsets
routinely generate cells of the opposite phenotype with a function that follows
phenotype, not parentage. The recent equation of CD45R subsets as maturation
stages representing 'naive' and 'memory' T cells is difficult to reconcile with
this finding.

DOI: 10.1038/348163a0 
PMID: 1978253  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Nature. 1990 Nov 1;348(6296):54-6.

Aerobic respiration in the Archaean?

Towe KM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paleobiolgoy, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC 20560,
USA.

The Earth's atmosphere during the Archaean era (3,800-2,500 Myr ago) is generally
thought to have been anoxic, with the partial pressure of atmospheric oxygen
about 10(-12) times the present value. In the absence of aerobic consumption of
oxygen produced by photosynthesis in the ocean, the major sink for this oxygen
would have been oxidation of dissolved Fe(II). Atmospheric oxygen would also be
removed by the oxidation of biogenic methane. But even very low estimates of
global primary productivity, obtained from the amounts of organic carbon
preserved in Archaean rocks, seem to require the sedimentation of an
unrealistically large amount of iron and the oxidation of too much methane if
global anoxia was to be maintained. I therefore suggest that aerobic respiration 
must have developed early in the Archaean to prevent a build-up of atmospheric
oxygen before the Proterozoic. An atmosphere that contained a low (0.2-0.4%) but 
stable proportion of oxygen is required.

DOI: 10.1038/348054a0 
PMID: 11536471  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Nature. 1990 Nov 1;348(6296):47-9.

Carbon isotope composition of individual amino acids in the Murchison meteorite.

Engel MH(1), Macko SA, Silfer JA.

Author information: 
(1)School of Geology and Geophysics, University of Oklahoma, Norman 73019, USA.

A significant portion of prebiotic organic matter on the early Earth may have
been introduced by carbonaceous asteroids and comets. The distribution and
stable-isotope composition of individual organic compounds in carbonaceous
meteorites, which are thought to be derived from asteroidal parent bodies, may
therefore provide important information concerning mechanistic pathways for
prebiotic synthesis and the composition of organic matter on Earth before living 
systems developed. Previous studies have shown that meteorite amino acids are
enriched in 13C relative to their terrestrial counterparts, but individual
species were not distinguished. Here we report the 13C contents of individual
amino acids in the Murchison meteorite. The amino acids are enriched in 13C,
indicating an extraterrestrial origin. Alanine is not racemic, and the 13C
enrichment of its D- and L-enantiomers implies that the excess of the
L-enantiomer is indigenous rather than terrestrial contamination, suggesting that
optically active materials were present in the early Solar System before life
began.

DOI: 10.1038/348047a0 
PMID: 11536470  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Nature. 1990 Nov 1;348(6296):86-8.

A downstream initiation element required for efficient TATA box binding and in
vitro function of TFIID.

Nakatani Y(1), Horikoshi M, Brenner M, Yamamoto T, Besnard F, Roeder RG, Freese
E.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, NINDS, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

The gfa gene encodes glial fibrillary acidic protein, an intermediate filament
protein expressed in glial cells. In vitro transcription analysis has shown that 
the human gfa promoter contains two initiation elements that can independently
specify the transcription startpoint. One of the elements is a TATA box 25 base
pairs (bp) upstream from the transcription startpoint; the other is located
between 10 and 50 bp downstream from the transcription initiation site. We have
now shown by transfection that both elements are required for efficient
transcription in cultured cells. A partially purified natural human TATA
box-binding factor (TFIID) from HeLa cells gave footprints that extended from
upstream of the TATA box through the downstream initiator. Deletion of the
downstream initiator inhibited both TFIID binding to the TATA box and
transcription in vitro. In contrast to natural human TFIID, clone human and yeast
TFIIDs expressed in bacteria gave footprints covering only the TATA box region,
although hypersensitive sites were observed in the downstream region. The cloned 
TFIIDs also showed less dependence than natural human TFIID on the downstream
initiator for both TATA box binding and in vitro transcription. These results
suggest that natural human TFIID contains an additional component(s) that
contribute(s) to stable TFIID binding and effective transcription by interacting 
with the downstream initiator.

DOI: 10.1038/348086a0 
PMID: 2234067  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Nature. 1990 Nov 1;348(6296):82-5.

TATA-dependent and TATA-independent transcription at the HIS4 gene of yeast.

Pellman D(1), McLaughlin ME, Fink GR.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge 02142.

Two systems of transcription factors stimulate expression of the HIS4 gene of
Saccharomyces cerevisiae. High-level transcription induced by amino-acid
starvation is mediated by Gcn4(ref.1) and basal transcription is mediated jointly
by the factors Bas1 and Bas2 (Pho2). We now show that wild-type Gcn4 requires the
TATA element for correct messenger RNA start-site selection, but Gcn4 derivatives
with deletions in the activation domain activate HIS4 transcription at the
correct mRNA start site (I) in the absence of the TATA element. Gcn4 derivatives 
that activate TATA-independent transcription show low levels of activation.
Similarly, we find that low levels of transcription by Bas1/Bas2 are
TATA-independent, whereas high levels are TATA-dependent. These results show that
the HIS4 TATA element is required for mRNA start-site selection only under
conditions of high-level transcription.

DOI: 10.1038/348082a0 
PMID: 2234066  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Nature. 1990 Nov 1;348(6296):76-80.

Cloning of a mitogen-inducible gene encoding a kappa B DNA-binding protein with
homology to the rel oncogene and to cell-cycle motifs.

Bours V(1), Villalobos J, Burd PR, Kelly K, Siebenlist U.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Immunoregulation, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

We have cloned and characterized a mitogen-inducible gene isolated from human T
cells that predicts a protein of 968 amino acids. The amino-terminal domain has
regions homologous to the oncogene rel and to the developmentally important gene 
dorsal of Drosophila. The carboxy-terminal domain contains repeat structures
found in a variety of proteins that are involved in cell-cycle control of yeast
and in tissue differentiation in Drosophila and Ceanorhabditis elegans, as well
as in the putative human oncogene bcl-3 and in the ankyrin protein. A truncated
form of the product of this gene translated in vitro is a DNA-binding protein
which interacts specifically with the kappa B binding site found in many
inducible genes, including the enhancer in human immunodeficiency virus. This
gene is yet another in a growing list of important regulatory molecules whose
expression is transcriptionally induced upon cellular activation.

DOI: 10.1038/348076a0 
PMID: 2234062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Nature. 1990 Nov 1;348(6296):73-6.

Analysis of a human DNA excision repair gene involved in group A xeroderma
pigmentosum and containing a zinc-finger domain.

Tanaka K(1), Miura N, Satokata I, Miyamoto I, Yoshida MC, Satoh Y, Kondo S, Yasui
A, Okayama H, Okada Y.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Molecular and Cellular Biology, Osaka University, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Nov 1;348(6296):13-4.

Xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) is an autosomal recessive disease, characterized by a 
high incidence of sunlight-induced skin cancer. Cells from people with this
condition are hypersensitive to ultraviolet because of a defect in DNA repair.
There are nine genetic complementation groups of XP, groups A-H and a variant. We
have cloned the mouse DNA repair gene that complements the defect of group A, the
XPAC gene. Here we report molecular cloning of human and mouse XPAC complementary
DNAs. Expression of XPAC cDNA confers ultraviolet-resistance on several group A
cell lines, but not on lines of other XP groups. Almost all group A lines tested 
showed abnormality or absence of XPAC messenger RNAs. These results indicate that
a defective XPAC gene causes group A XP. The human and mouse XPAC genes are
located on chromosome 9q34.1 and chromosome 4C2, respectively. Human XPAC cDNA
encodes a protein of 273 amino acids with a zinc-finger motif.

DOI: 10.1038/348073a0 
PMID: 2234061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Nature. 1990 Nov 1;348(6296):66-9.

Stimulation of the phosphatidylinositol pathway can induce T-cell activation.

Desai DM(1), Newton ME, Kadlecek T, Weiss A.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Medicine, University of
California, San Francisco 94143.

The T-cell antigen receptor (TCR) regulates two signal transduction pathways: the
phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) and tyrosine kinase pathways. Stimulation of T
cells with antigen or anti-TCR monoclonal antibodies induces an increase in
inositol phosphates and diacylglycerol, the second messengers responsible for the
mobilization of cytoplasmic free calcium and activation of protein kinase C-4.
The TCR also activates a tyrosine kinase that is not intrinsic to the TCR. The
relationship between these two signal transduction pathways and their
contribution to later T-cell responses is unclear. Studies using variants of a
murine hybridoma suggested that the PtdIns pathway might not be necessary for or 
be involved in regulating interleukin-2 (IL-2) production. To address the
relationship between later T-cell responses and the early biochemical signals, we
investigated the ability of a heterologous receptor with defined signal
transduction function to induce T-cell activation. The human muscarinic subtype-1
receptor (HM1), which elicits PtdIns metabolism in neuronal cells through a G
protein-coupled mechanism, also functionally activates this pathway when
expressed in the T-cell line Jurkat-derived host, J-HM1-2.2 (ref.8). We show here
that stimulation of HM1 alone induced IL-2 production and IL-2 receptor alpha
chain expression. HM1 does not induce the tyrosine kinase pathway, suggesting
that this pathway does not directly influence later T cell-activation responses. 
Instead, our studies indicate that activation of the PtdIns pathway is probably
sufficient to induce later T-cell responses.

DOI: 10.1038/348066a0 
PMID: 2234059  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Nature. 1990 Nov 1;348(6296):39-44.

Invariant chain distinguishes between the exogenous and endogenous antigen
presentation pathways.

Teyton L(1), O'Sullivan D, Dickson PW, Lotteau V, Sette A, Fink P, Peterson PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Research Institute of Scripps Clinic, La Jolla,
California 92037.

Class I MHC molecules acquire peptides from endogenously synthesized proteins,
whereas class II antigens present peptides derived from extracellular compartment
molecules. This dichotomy is due to the fact that the invariant chain associates 
with class II molecules in the endoplasmic reticulum, preventing binding of
endogenous peptides. The mutually exclusive binding of peptide and invariant
chain to class II molecules suggests that the invariant chain might play a part
in autoimmune disease.

DOI: 10.1038/348039a0 
PMID: 2234057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Nature. 1990 Nov 1;348(6296):89-90.

Ferryl and hydroxy intermediates in the reaction of oxygen with reduced
cytochrome c oxidase.

Han S(1), Ching YC, Rousseau DL.

Author information: 
(1)AT&T Bell Laboratories, Murray Hill, New Jersey 07974.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Nov 1;348(6296):16-7.

Cytochrome c oxidase catalyses the 4-electron reduction of dioxygen to water and 
translocates protons vectorially across the inner mitochondrial membrane.
Proposed reaction pathways for the catalytic cycle of the O2 reduction are
difficult to verify without knowing the structures of the intermediates, but we
now have such information for the catalytic intermediates in the first steps of
the reaction of O2 with cytochrome c oxidase from resonance Raman spectroscopy, a
technique that enables iron-ligand stretching modes to be identified. Here we
report on two more key intermediates: a ferryl-oxo (Fe4 = O2-) and a
ferric-hydroxy (Fe3+--OH-) intermediate at the level of 3- and 4-electron
reduction, respectively. We identified these intermediates by their
characteristic iron-oxygen stretching frequencies (786 cm-1 for Fe4+ = O2-, and
450 cm-1 for Fe3+ -- OH-) and oxygen and deuterium isotope shifts. The oxo atom
in the ferryl intermediate is hydrogen-bonded and the iron-oxygen bond in the
hydroxy intermediate is anomalously weak. With the identification of the primary,
ferryl and hydroxy intermediates, the predominant structures at almost all stages
of O2 reduction are now known and the catalytic pathway can be described with
more certainty.

DOI: 10.1038/348089a0 
PMID: 2172834  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Nature. 1990 Nov 1;348(6296):69-73.

HIV-1 tropism for mononuclear phagocytes can be determined by regions of gp120
outside the CD4-binding domain.

O'Brien WA(1), Koyanagi Y, Namazie A, Zhao JQ, Diagne A, Idler K, Zack JA, Chen
IS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, West Los Angeles Veteran's Administration Medical
Center, UCLA School of Medicine, 90073.

Cells of the mononuclear phagocyte system are the predominant cell producing
HIV-1 in most tissues including the central nervous system (CNS), spinal cord,
lung and skin; infection is associated with dementia, neuropathy, pneumonitis,
and dermatitis respectively. Different HIV-1 isolates vary markedly in their
ability to infect mononuclear phagocytes productively. Here we describe molecular
clones of a CNS-derived isolate, HIV-1(JR-FL), which can replicate efficiently in
mononuclear phagocytes. Analysis by polymerase chain reaction of early events
after infection indicates that the early phase of viral replication before
reverse transcription determines tropism. Genetic mapping of the
macrophage-tropic phenotype by construction of recombinant viruses indicates that
mononuclear phagocyte infectivity can be determined by a 157-amino-acid region of
the gp 120 glycoprotein of HIV-1(JR-FL). Significantly, this region is upstream
from the previously defined CD4-binding domain. We propose that at least one
determinant for mononuclear phagocyte tropism involves target cell interactions
with regions of gp120 distinct from the CD4-binding domain.

DOI: 10.1038/348069a0 
PMID: 2172833  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Nature. 1990 Nov 1;348(6296):80-2.

Phosphorylation of the C terminus of Fos protein is required for transcriptional 
transrepression of the c-fos promoter.

Ofir R(1), Dwarki VJ, Rashid D, Verma IM.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Biology and Virology Laboratory, Salk Institute, San Diego,
California 92138.

Proto-oncogene fos encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein of 380 amino acids that can
modulate the transcription of other genes either by transactivation or by
transrepression. The v-Fos protein (381 amino acids) shares the first 332 amino
acids with the c-Fos protein (with five single amino-acid changes), but differs
at the C terminus. We have previously reported that the c-Fos protein undergoes
more extensive post-translational modification than v-Fos (refs 9, 10). The major
modification of the c-Fos protein involves serine phosphoesterification of sites 
in the extreme C terminus. We therefore argued that modification of the
C-terminal region of the c-Fos protein may be involved in its ability to
transrepress transcription without compromising its ability to transactivate
other genes. Here we show that mutant c-Fos protein which is hypophosphorylated
at its C terminus is unable to repress transcription of the c-fos promoter
following induction with serum or tetraphorbol acetate. The C-terminal
phosphorylation-deficient mutant is, however, fully competent to activate
transcription of promoters containing a phorbol response element. The requirement
for phosphorylation can be offset by the introduction of a net negative charge in
the C terminus of the Fos protein.

DOI: 10.1038/348080a0 
PMID: 2122257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Nature. 1990 Nov 1;348(6296):64-6.

Molecular and phenotypic variation in the achaete-scute region of Drosophila
melanogaster.

Mackay TF(1), Langley CH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, North Carolina State University, Raleigh 27695-7614

Variation in quantitative characters underlies much adaptive evolution and
provides the basis for selective improvement of domestic species, yet the genetic
nature of quantitative variation is poorly understood. Many loci affecting
quantitative traits have been identified by the segregation of mutant alleles
with major qualitative effects. These alleles may represent an extreme of a
continuum of allelic effects, and most quantitative variation could result from
the segregation of alleles with subtle effects at loci identified by alleles with
major effects. The achaete-scute complex in Drosophila melanogaster plays a
central part in bristle development and has been characterized at the molecular
level. The hypothesis that naturally occurring quantitative variation in bristle 
number could be associated with wild-type alleles of achaete-scute was tested by 
correlating phenotypic variation in bristle number with molecular variation in
restriction maps in this region among chromosomes extracted from natural
populations. DNA insertion variation in the achaete-scute region was found to be 
strongly associated with variation in bristle number.

DOI: 10.1038/348064a0 
PMID: 2122256  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Nature. 1990 Oct 25;347(6295):776-80.

X-ray analysis of beta B2-crystallin and evolution of oligomeric lens proteins.

Bax B(1), Lapatto R, Nalini V, Driessen H, Lindley PF, Mahadevan D, Blundell TL, 
Slingsby C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Crystallography, Birkbeck College, London University, UK.

The beta, gamma-crystallins form a class of homologous proteins in the eye lens. 
Each gamma-crystallin comprises four topologically equivalent, Greek key motifs; 
pairs of motifs are organized around a local dyad to give domains and two similar
domains are in turn related by a further local dyad. Sequence comparisons and
model building predicted that hetero-oligomeric beta-crystallins also had
internally quadruplicated subunits, but with extensions at the N and C termini,
indicating that beta, gamma-crystallins evolved in two duplication steps from an 
ancestral protein folded as a Greek key. We report here the X-ray analysis at 2.1
A resolution of beta B2-crystallin homodimer which shows that the connecting
peptide is extended and the two domains separated in a way quite unlike
gamma-crystallin. Domain interactions analogous to those within monomeric
gamma-crystallin are intermolecular and related by a crystallographic dyad in the
beta B2-crystallin dimer. This shows how oligomers can evolve by conserving an
interface rather than connectivity. A further interaction between dimers suggests
a model for more complex aggregates of beta-crystallin in the lens.

DOI: 10.1038/347776a0 
PMID: 2234050  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Nature. 1990 Oct 25;347(6295):755-7.

Overall mortality and cancer mortality around French nuclear sites.

Hill C(1), Laplanche A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Institut Gustave Roussy,
Villejuif, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Oct 25;347(6295):712-3.

Higher than expected mortality from leukaemia has been observed in the population
under age 25 living around Sellafield and Dounreay, nuclear reprocessing plants
in the United Kingdom. We report the results of a similar study for the
population residing around nuclear sites in France. The number of leukaemia
deaths was 58, comparable to the 62 in control areas, and slightly less than the 
67 expected from national mortality statistics. Twelve deaths due to Hodgkin's
disease were observed around nuclear sites; this is about twice the number of
Hodgkin's deaths observed in control areas and twice the number expected from
national mortality statistics. This observation must, however, be interpreted in 
light of the fact that several causes of deaths were studied, increasing the play
of chance.

DOI: 10.1038/347755a0 
PMID: 2234049  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Nature. 1990 Oct 25;347(6295):770-2.

A complex between the MHC class I homologue encoded by human cytomegalovirus and 
beta 2 microglobulin.

Browne H(1), Smith G, Beck S, Minson T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Cambridge, UK.

Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a ubiquitous pathogen that persists in the host
and can cause severe disease in the immunocompromised individual or in the fetus.
Analysis of the nucleotide sequence of the virus genome has revealed the presence
of an open reading frame whose predicted translation product has homology with
the heavy chain of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecule of
higher eukaryotes, and the observed sequence homology was given additional
significance by the independent observation that HCMV virions can bind beta 2
microglobulin (beta 2m), the light chain of the MHC class I molecule. We
expressed both the HCMV class I homologue and the human beta 2m gene in
recombinant vaccinia viruses. We show that the coexpressed gene products
associate, that the transport of beta 2m to the cell surface is dependent on
coexpression of the class I homologue and that the viral gene product is
therefore functionally related to its cellular counterpart. We observe also that,
in HCMV-infected cells, no synthesis of mature cellular class I molecules occurs,
while messenger RNA levels remain unaltered, and we speculate that one function
of the viral homologue may be to sequester beta 2m, thus preventing the
maturation of cellular class I molecules and rendering the infected cell
unrecognizable by cytotoxic T cells.

DOI: 10.1038/347770a0 
PMID: 2172831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Nature. 1990 Oct 25;347(6295):765-7.

Potassium conductances in hippocampal neurons blocked by excitatory amino-acid
transmitters.

Charpak S(1), Gähwiler BH, Do KQ, Knöpfel T.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Research Institute, University of Zürich, Switzerland.

Excitatory amino acids mediate fast synaptic transmission in the central nervous 
system through the activation of at least three distinct ionotropic receptors:
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), the
alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxasole-4-propionate (AMPA)/quisqualate (QUIS)
and the kainate subtypes (for reviews, see refs 1, 2). They also activate the
additional QUIS 'metabotropic' receptor (sensitive to
trans-1-amino-cyclopentyl-1,3-dicarboxylate, ACPD) linked to inositol
phospholipid metabolism. We have used hippocampal slice cultures to study the
electrophysiological consequences of the metabotropic response. We find that
activation of an ACPD-sensitive QUIS receptor produces a 'slow' excitation of CA3
pyramidal cells, resulting from depression of a Ca2(+)-dependent K+ current and a
voltage-gated K+ current. Combined voltage-clamp and microfluorometric recordings
show that, although these receptors can trigger an increase in intracellular Ca2+
concentration, suppression of K+ currents is independent of changes in
intracellular Ca2+. These effects closely resemble those induced by activating
muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in the same neurons and suggest that
excitatory amino acids not only act as fast ionotropic transmitters but also as
slow neuromodulatory transmitters.

DOI: 10.1038/347765a0 
PMID: 2172830  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Nature. 1990 Oct 25;347(6295):762-5.

Proliferation and differentiation of neuronal stem cells regulated by nerve
growth factor.

Cattaneo E(1), McKay R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Brain and Cognitive, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge 02139.

Nerve growth factor plays an important part in neuron-target interactions in the 
late embryonic and adult brain. We now report that this growth factor controls
the proliferation of neuronal precursors in a defined culture system of cells
derived from the early embryonic brain. Neuronal precursor cells were identified 
by expression of the intermediate filament protein nestin. These cells
proliferate in response to nerve growth factor but only after they have been
exposed to basic fibroblast growth factor. On withdrawal of nerve growth factor, 
the proliferative cells differentiate into neurons. Thus, in combination with
other growth factors, nerve growth factor regulates the proliferation and
terminal differentiation of neuroepithelial stem cells.

DOI: 10.1038/347762a0 
PMID: 2172829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Nature. 1990 Oct 25;347(6295):780-2.

The Drosophila claret segregation protein is a minus-end directed motor molecule.

Walker RA(1), Salmon ED, Endow SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 27599.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Oct 25;347(6295):713-4.

A product encoded at the claret locus in Drosophila is needed for normal
chromosome segregation in meiosis in females and in early mitotic divisions of
the embryo. The predicted amino-acid sequence of the segregation protein was
shown recently to be strikingly similar to Drosophila kinesin heavy chain. We
have expressed the claret segregation protein in bacteria and have found that the
bacterially expressed protein has motor activity in vitro with several novel
features. The claret motor is slow (4 microns min-1), unlike either kinesin or
dyneins. It has the directionality, the ability to generate torque and the
sensitivity to inhibitors reported previously for dyneins. The finding of
minus-end directed motor activity for a protein with sequence similarity to
kinesin suggests that the dynein and kinesin motor domains are ancestrally
related. The minus-end directed motor activity of the claret motor is consistent 
with a role for this protein in producing chromosome movement along spindle
microtubules during prometaphase and/or anaphase.

DOI: 10.1038/347780a0 
PMID: 2146510  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Nature. 1990 Oct 25;347(6295):773-6.

Identification of the primary gene defect at the cytochrome P450 CYP2D locus.

Gough AC(1), Miles JS, Spurr NK, Moss JE, Gaedigk A, Eichelbaum M, Wolf CR.

Author information: 
(1)Imperial Cancer Research Fund, Clare Hall Laboratories, South Mimms, Potters
Bar, UK.

The mammalian cytochrome P450-dependent monooxygenase system is involved in the
metabolism of drugs and chemical carcinogens. The role of these enzymes in
toxicological response is exemplified by an autosomal recessive polymorphism at
the cytochrome P450 CYP2D6 debrisoquine hydroxylase locus which results in the
severely compromised metabolism of at least 25 drugs, and which in some cases can
lead to life-threatening side-effects. In addition, this polymorphism, which
affects 8-10% of the caucasian population, has been associated with altered
susceptibility to lung and bladder cancer. Here we report the identification of
the primary mutation responsible for this metabolic defect and the development of
a simple DNA-based genetic assay to allow both the identification of most
individuals at risk of drug side-effects and clarification of the conflicting
reports on the association of this polymorphism with cancer susceptibility.

DOI: 10.1038/347773a0 
PMID: 1978251  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Nature. 1990 Oct 25;347(6295):768-70.

Localization of nitric oxide synthase indicating a neural role for nitric oxide.

Bredt DS(1), Hwang PM, Snyder SH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, John Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21205.

Nitric oxide (NO), apparently identical to endothelium-derived relaxing factor in
blood vessels, is also formed by cytotoxic macrophages, in adrenal gland and in
brain tissue, where it mediates the stimulation by glutamate of cyclic GMP
formation in the cerebellum. Stimulation of intestinal or anococcygeal nerves
liberates NO, and the resultant muscle relaxation is blocked by arginine
derivatives that inhibit NO synthesis. It is, however, unclear whether in brain
or intestine, NO released following nerve stimulation is formed in neurons, glia,
fibroblasts, muscle or blood cells, all of which occur in proximity to neurons
and so could account for effects of nerve stimulation on cGMP and muscle tone. We
have now localized NO synthase protein immunohistochemically in the rat using
antisera to the purified enzyme. We demonstrate NO synthase in the brain to be
exclusively associated with discrete neuronal populations. NO synthase is also
concentrated in the neural innervation of the posterior pituitary, in autonomic
nerve fibres in the retina, in cell bodies and nerve fibres in the myenteric
plexus of the intestine, in adrenal medulla, and in vascular endothelial cells.
These prominent neural localizations provide the first conclusive evidence for a 
strong association of NO with neurons.

DOI: 10.1038/347768a0 
PMID: 1700301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Nature. 1990 Oct 18;347(6294):692-4.

Mandelate racemase and muconate lactonizing enzyme are mechanistically distinct
and structurally homologous.

Neidhart DJ(1), Kenyon GL, Gerlt JA, Petsko GA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge
02139.

Mandelate racemase (MR) and muconate lactonizing enzyme (MLE) catalyse separate
and mechanistically distinct reactions necessary for the catabolism of aromatic
acids by Pseudomonas putida. The X-ray crystal structure of MR, solved at 2.5 A
resolution, reveals that the secondary, tertiary and quaternary structures of MR 
and MLE are remarkably similar; also, MR and MLE are about 26% identical in
primary structure. However, MR has no detectable MLE activity and vice versa.
Thus, MR and MLE constitute the first example of enzymes that catalyse different 
reactions, as opposed to mechanistically identical reactions on different
substrates, yet possess sufficient structural and sequence identity that they are
likely to have evolved from a common ancestor. The discovery that MR and MLE
catalyse different reactions but share a common structural framework has broad
implications for the natural evolution of enzymes and metabolic pathways, as well
as for the rational modification of enzyme activities.

DOI: 10.1038/347692a0 
PMID: 2215699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Nature. 1990 Oct 18;347(6294):689-91.

X-ray structure of phospholipase A2 complexed with a substrate-derived inhibitor.

Thunnissen MM(1), Ab E, Kalk KH, Drenth J, Dijkstra BW, Kuipers OP, Dijkman R, de
Haas GH, Verheij HM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Chemical Physics, University of Groningen, The Netherlands.

Phospholipases A2 play a part in a number of physiologically important cellular
processes such as inflammation, blood platelet aggregation and acute
hypersensitivity. These processes are all initiated by the release of arachidonic
acid from cell membranes which is catalysed by intracellular phospholipases A2
and followed by conversion of arachidonic acid to prostaglandins, leukotrienes or
thromboxanes. An imbalance in the production of these compounds can lead to
chronic inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and asthma. Inhibitors
of phospholipase A2 might therefore act to reduce the effects of inflammation, so
structural information about the binding of phospholipase A2 to its substrates
could be helpful in the design of therapeutic drugs. The three-dimensional
structure is not known for any intracellular phospholipase A2, but these enzymes 
share significant sequence homology with secreted phospholipases, for which some 
of the structures have been determined. Here we report the structure of a complex
between an extracellular phospholipase A2 and a competitively inhibiting
substrate analogue, which reveals considerable detail about the interaction and
suggests a mechanism for catalysis by this enzyme.

DOI: 10.1038/347689a0 
PMID: 2215698  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Nature. 1990 Oct 18;347(6294):674-7.

Cloning of a gene that is rearranged in patients with choroideraemia.

Cremers FP(1), van de Pol DJ, van Kerkhoff LP, Wieringa B, Ropers HH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Genetics, University of Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Oct 18;347(6294):614.

Choroideraemia (tapetochoroidal dystrophy, TCD), a common form of X-linked
blindness, is characterized by progressive dystrophy of the choroid, retinal
pigment epithelium and retina. Previous studies have assigned the TCD gene to a
small segment of the Xq21 band. By making use of reverse genetics strategies we
have isolated eight overlapping complementary DNA clones from the same
chromosomal region. The corresponding gene is expressed in retina, choroid and
retinal pigment epithelium. The cDNAs encompass an open reading frame of 948 base
pairs that is structurally altered in eight TCD patients with deletions, and in a
female patient with a balanced translocation involving Xq21. These findings
provide strong evidence that we have cloned the gene underlying choroideraemia.
Elucidation of its function should provide new insights into the molecular
mechanisms responsible for this disorder and other hereditary retinopathies.

DOI: 10.1038/347674a0 
PMID: 2215697  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Nature. 1990 Oct 18;347(6294):672-4.

Intrinsic segmental identity of segmental founder cells of the leech embryo.

Martindale MQ(1), Shankland M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cellular Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115.

Segmentation occurs in several animal phyla, and the cellular mechanisms
generating this structural periodicity vary considerably. In the leech, an
annelid worm, segmental founder cells arise through a fixed cell lineage (Fig.
1), and come together in a longitudinally repeating array through a stereotyped
pattern of morphogenesis. In this paper we demonstrate that founder cells forced 
to differentiate in a foreign segmental environment give rise to their normal,
segment-specific clones of neuronal descendants, even in segments in which those 
neuronal phenotypes would not normally be observed. These findings indicate that 
the individual founder cells possess segmental identity at or shortly after the
time of their birth, and further suggest that such identities are established by 
a mechanism in which the parent stem cell 'counts' mitotic cycles.

DOI: 10.1038/347672a0 
PMID: 2215696  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Nature. 1990 Oct 18;347(6294):631-9.

Molecular dynamics simulations in biology.

Karplus M(1), Petsko GA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138.

Molecular dynamics--the science of simulating the motions of a system of
particles--applied to biological macromolecules gives the fluctuations in the
relative positions of the atoms in a protein or in DNA as a function of time.
Knowledge of these motions provides insights into biological phenomena such as
the role of flexibility in ligand binding and the rapid solvation of the electron
transfer state in photosynthesis. Molecular dynamics is also being used to
determine protein structures from NMR, to refine protein X-ray crystal structures
faster from poorer starting models, and to calculate the free energy changes
resulting from mutations in proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/347631a0 
PMID: 2215695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Nature. 1990 Oct 18;347(6294):645-50.

Activation of a member of the steroid hormone receptor superfamily by peroxisome 
proliferators.

Issemann I(1), Green S.

Author information: 
(1)Imperial Chemical Industries PLC, Central Toxicology Laboratory, Alderley
Park, Macclesfield, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Oct 25;347(6295):709-10.

We have cloned a member of the steroid hormone receptor superfamily of
ligand-activated transcription factors. The receptor homologue is activated by a 
diverse class of rodent hepatocarcinogens that causes proliferation of
peroxisomes. Identification of a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor
should help elucidate the mechanism of the hypolipidaemic effect of these
hepatocarcinogens and aid evaluation of their potential carcinogenic risk to man.

DOI: 10.1038/347645a0 
PMID: 2129546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Nature. 1990 Oct 18;347(6294):685-9.

Sequence and domain structure of talin.

Rees DJ(1), Ades SE, Singer SJ, Hynes RO.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Cancer Research, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge
02139.

Talin is a high-molecular-weight cytoskeletal protein concentrated at regions of 
cell-substratum contact and, in lymphocytes, at cell-cell contacts. Integrin
receptors are involved in the attachment of adherent cells to extracellular
matrices and of lymphocytes to other cells. In these situations, talin
codistributes with concentrations of integrins in the cell surface membrane.
Furthermore, in vitro binding studies suggest that integrins bind to talin,
although with low affinity. Talin also binds with high affinity to vinculin,
another cytoskeletal protein concentrated at points of cell adhesion. Finally,
talin is a substrate for the Ca2(+)-activated protease, calpain II, which is also
concentrated at points of cell-substratum contact. To learn more about the
structure of talin and its involvement in transmembrane connections between
extracellular adhesions and the cytoskeleton, we have cloned and sequenced murine
talin. We describe a model for the structure of talin based on this sequence and 
other data. Homologies between talin and other proteins define a novel family of 
submembranous cytoskeleton-associated proteins all apparently involved in
connections to the plasma membrane.

DOI: 10.1038/347685a0 
PMID: 2120593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Nature. 1990 Oct 18;347(6294):682-5.

Binding of yeast a1 and alpha 2 as a heterodimer to the operator DNA of a
haploid-specific gene.

Dranginis AM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cellular and Developmental Biology, National Institute of
Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

The mating-type locus (MAT) encodes several DNA-binding proteins, which determine
the three cell types of Saccharomyces cerevisiae: the a and alpha haploid cell
types, and the a/alpha diploid cell type. One of the products of MAT, alpha 2,
functions in two cell types. In alpha cells, alpha 2 represses the a-specific
genes by binding to the operator as a dimer. In a/alpha diploid cells, alpha 2
acts with a1, a product of the other MAT allele, to repress a different set of
genes, the haploid-specific genes. Until now, the nature of the interaction
between a1 and alpha 2 was not known, although it had been suggested that alpha 2
may form a heterodimer with a1. I show, by using proteins synthesized in vitro,
that a1 and alpha 2 bind the operator of a haploid-specific gene as a
heterodimer. The ability of alpha 2 to form both homodimers and heterodimers with
a1, each with a different DNA-binding specificity, explains the dual regulatory
functions of alpha 2. This is the first example of regulation by
heterodimerization among homeobox-containing proteins, a class that includes
proteins responsible for the specification of segment identity in Drosophila,
mammals and other eukaryotes.

DOI: 10.1038/347682a0 
PMID: 1977088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Nature. 1990 Oct 18;347(6294):677-80.

Retinal degeneration in the rd mouse is caused by a defect in the beta subunit of
rod cGMP-phosphodiesterase.

Bowes C(1), Li T, Danciger M, Baxter LC, Applebury ML, Farber DB.

Author information: 
(1)Jules Stein Eye Institute, University of California, School of Medicine, Los
Angeles 90024.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Oct 18;347(6294):614.

Mice homozygous for the rd mutation display hereditary retinal degeneration and
the classic rd lines serve as a model for human retinitis pigmentosa. In affected
animals the retinal rod photoreceptor cells begin degenerating at about postnatal
day 8, and by four weeks no photoreceptors are left. Degeneration is preceded by 
accumulation of cyclic GMP in the retina and is correlated with deficient
activity of the rod photoreceptor cGMP-phosphodiesterase. We have recently
isolated a candidate complementary DNA for the rd gene from a mouse retinal
library and completed the characterization of cDNAs encoding all subunits of
bovine photoreceptor phosphodiesterase. The candidate cDNA shows strong homology 
with a cDNA encoding the bovine phosphodiesterase beta subunit. Here we present
evidence that the candidate cDNA is the murine homologue of bovine
phosphodiesterase beta cDNA. We conclude that the mouse rd locus encodes the rod 
photoreceptor cGMP-phosphodiesterase beta subunit.

DOI: 10.1038/347677a0 
PMID: 1977087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Nature. 1990 Oct 18;347(6294):680-2.

Distinct nuclear and spindle pole body population of cyclin-cdc2 in fission
yeast.

Alfa CE(1), Ducommun B, Beach D, Hyams JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University College London, UK.

Cyclins, as subunits of the protein kinase encoded by the cdc2 gene are major
controlling elements of the eukaryotic cell cycle. The fission yeast
Schizosaccharomyces pombe has a B-type cyclin, which is a nuclear protein encoded
by the cdc13 gene. Here we demonstrate the presence of two spatially distinct
cdc13 cyclin populations in the nucleus of S. pombe, one of which is associated
with the mitotic spindle poles. Both populations colocalize with the product of
the cdc2 gene (p34cdc2). Treatment of cells with the antimicrotubule drug
thiabendazole prevents cyclin degradation and blocks the tyrosine
dephosphorylation and activation of cdc2. These results suggest a key regulatory 
role of the cdc2-cyclin complex in the initiation of mitotic spindle formation
and also that mitotic microtubule function is required for cdc2 activation.

DOI: 10.1038/347680a0 
PMID: 1699136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Nature. 1990 Oct 18;347(6294):669-71.

Selective attraction of monocytes and T lymphocytes of the memory phenotype by
cytokine RANTES.

Schall TJ(1), Bacon K, Toy KJ, Goeddel DV.

Author information: 
(1)Genentech Inc., South San Francisco, California 94080.

An important process in the immune response is the migration of different
populations of lymphocytes at the proper time to sites of antigenic challenge.
Although several chemoattractants are known for broad classes of lymphocytes,
such as T and B cells, the process by which lymphocytes of specific subsets, such
as helper, cytotoxic or memory T cells, migrate to the appropriate sites remains 
obscure. Interleukin-8 is a chemoattractant for T cells and neutrophils and is a 
member of a superfamily of soluble molecules related by a conserved motif
containing four cysteine residues. IL-8 and related molecules, including platelet
factor 4, constitute the C-X-C class of the superfamily and a group of cytokines 
produced by haematopoietic cells constitute the RANTES/sis or C-C class. The
roles of most of these molecules are not well known, although murine MIP-1 alpha 
of the C-C branch is a specific inhibitor of haematopoietic stem cell
proliferation and some members of the C-X-C branch are neutrophil-targeted
inflammatory agents. Here we report that the RANTES protein of the C-C class
causes the selective migration of human blood monocytes and of T lymphocytes
expressing the cell surface antigens CD4 and UCHL1. CD4+/UCHL1+T cells are
thought to be prestimulated or primed helper T cells involved in memory T cell
function. The preferential attraction of T-cell subsets by specific cytokines
could in part explain how lymphocytes are targeted, and may provide insight into 
the workings of T cell memory.

DOI: 10.1038/347669a0 
PMID: 1699135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Nature. 1990 Oct 18;347(6294):667-9.

Embryonic expression of a haematopoietic growth factor encoded by the Sl locus
and the ligand for c-kit.

Matsui Y(1), Zsebo KM, Hogan BL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Vanderbilt University Medical School, Nashville,
Tennessee 37232-2172.

Mice carrying mutations at the W (Dominant white spotting) and Sl (Steel) loci
develop abnormalities in three independent systems: neural crest-derived
melanocytes, primordial germ cells and haematopoietic stem cells. Consequently,
homozygotes of viable mutant alleles have white coats and are sterile and
severely anaemic. Tissue recombination studies predict that the W gene is
expressed cell autonomously, whereas the product of the Sl locus affects the
microenvironment in which the stem cells migrate, proliferate and differentiate. 
The W locus encodes the protoncogene c-kit, a member of the tyrosine kinase
receptor family. The haematopoietic growth factor SCF (stem cell factor) has been
identified as the product of the Sl locus and a ligand for c-kit. Here, we report
that SCF is expressed during embryogenesis in cells associated with both the
migratory pathways and homing sites of melanoblasts, germ cells and
haematopoietic stem cells. Both SCF and c-kit are also expressed in a variety of 
other tissues, including the brain and spinal cord, suggesting that the
receptor-ligand system has additional roles in embryogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/347667a0 
PMID: 1699134  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Nature. 1990 Oct 11;347(6293):578-80.

Phylogenetic and genetic evidence for base-triples in the catalytic domain of
group I introns.

Michel F(1), Ellington AD, Couture S, Szostak JW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston 02114.

Understanding the mechanisms by which ribozymes catalyse chemical reactions
requires a detailed knowledge of their structure. The secondary structure of the 
group I introns has been confirmed by comparison of over 70 published sequences, 
by chemical protection studies, and by genetic experiments involving compensatory
mutations. Phylogenetic data can also be used to identify tertiary interactions
in RNA molecules. This was first done by Levitt, who predicted tertiary
interactions in transfer RNA, which were subsequently confirmed by X-ray
crystallography. More recently, sequence comparison data have been used to
predict tertiary interactions in ribosomal RNA. We have searched a complete
alignment of the core regions of group I introns for evolutionary covariations
that could not be ascribed to classical Watson-Crick or wobble base pairings.
Here we describe two examples of phylogenetic covariation that are most simply
explained by postulating hydrogen-bonded base-triples similar to those found in
tRNA. Genetic experiments with the Tetrahymena and sunY introns confirm the
importance of these interactions for the structure of the ribozyme.

DOI: 10.1038/347578a0 
PMID: 2215683  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Nature. 1990 Oct 11;347(6293):561-2.

An essential role for a phospholipid transfer protein in yeast Golgi function.

Bankaitis VA(1), Aitken JR, Cleves AE, Dowhan W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Illinois, Urbana 61801.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Oct 11;347(6293):519-20.

Progression of proteins through the secretory pathway of eukaryotic cells
involves a continuous rearrangement of macromolecular structures made up of
proteins and phospholipids. The protein SEC14p is essential for transport of
proteins from the yeast Golgi complex. Independent characterization of the SEC14 
gene and the PIT1 gene, which encodes a phosphatidylinositol/phosphatidylcholine 
transfer protein in yeast, indicated that these two genes are identical.
Phospholipid transfer proteins are a class of cytosolic proteins that are
ubiquitous among eukaryotic cells and are distinguished by their ability to
catalyse the exchange of phospholipids between membranes in vitro. We show here
that the SEC14 and PIT1 genes are indeed identical and that the growth phenotype 
of a sec14-1ts mutant extends to the inability of its transfer protein to effect 
phospholipid transfer in vitro. These results therefore establish for the first
time an in vivo function for a phospholipid transfer protein, namely a role in
the compartment-specific stimulation of protein secretion.

DOI: 10.1038/347561a0 
PMID: 2215682  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Nature. 1990 Oct 11;347(6293):553-6.

Transparency and the uniqueness constraint in human and computer stereo vision.

Pollard SB(1), Frisby JP.

Author information: 
(1)Al Vision Research Unit, University of Sheffield, UK.

The sensation of depth that is obtained with human binocular vision results from 
the differences in the projection of the world onto the two retinae. The process 
entails solving the problem of stereo correspondence, which involves choosing the
correct matches between left and right image features. Many computational models 
of stereo vision assume a uniqueness constraint on stereo matching-that is, each 
feature identified in one image should eventually be matched with only one
feature in the other image. This constraint would seem to be justified, as
allowing non-unique matches would be tantamount to supposing that the scene
entities to which matches relate are in two places at once. The value of the
uniqueness constraint for eliminating false matches has been demonstrated in a
variety of stereo algorithms. Yet on the basis of psychophysical results
Weinshall concluded that it was not used by humans in dealing with certain types 
of ambiguous random-dot stereograms. We have now tested how Weinshall's
stereograms are dealt with by PMF, a stereo algorithm which uses a unique-matches
selection procedure in conjunction with a purely local similar-disparity support 
scheme. We found that PMF produces results that are closely analogous to the
psychophysical results. This suggests that Weinshall's experiments should not be 
interpreted as evidence that the human stereo mechanism establishes non-unique
matches.

DOI: 10.1038/347553a0 
PMID: 2215681  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Nature. 1990 Oct 11;347(6293):550-3.

Monophyletic origin of Lake Victoria cichlid fishes suggested by mitochondrial
DNA sequences.

Meyer A(1), Kocher TD, Basasibwaki P, Wilson AC.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of California,
Berkeley 94720.

Lake Victoria, together with its satellite lakes, harbours roughly 200 endemic
forms of cichlid fishes that are classified as 'haplochromines' and yet the lake 
system is less than a million years old. This 'flock' has attracted attention
because of the possibility that it evolved within the lake from one ancestral
species and that biologists are thus presented with a case of explosive
evolution. Within the past decade, however, morphology has increasingly
emphasized the view that the flock may be polyphyletic. We sequenced up to 803
base pairs of mitochondrial DNA from 14 representative Victorian species and 23
additional African species. The flock seems to be monophyletic, and is more akin 
to that from Lake Malawi than to species from Lake Tanganyika; in addition, it
contains less genetic variation than does the human species, and there is
virtually no sharing of mitochondrial DNA types among species. These results
confirm that the founding event was recent.

DOI: 10.1038/347550a0 
PMID: 2215680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Nature. 1990 Oct 11;347(6293):558-61.

The t(15;17) translocation of acute promyelocytic leukaemia fuses the retinoic
acid receptor alpha gene to a novel transcribed locus.

de Thé H(1), Chomienne C, Lanotte M, Degos L, Dejean A.

Author information: 
(1)Unité de Recombinaison et Expression Génétique, INSERM U.163, CNRS URA 271,
Institut Pasteur, Paris, France.

Retinoic acid is a vitamin A derivative with striking effects on development and 
cell differentiation. Several nuclear retinoic acid receptors (RARs), acting as
ligand-inducible transcription factors, have been characterized and indirect
evidence suggests that they have distinct roles. One of the most intriguing
properties of retinoic acid is its ability to induce in vivo differentiation of
acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL) cells into mature granulocytes, leading to
morphological complete remissions. Because the RAR alpha gene maps to chromosome 
17q21 (ref. 14), close to the t(15;17) (q21-q11-22) translocation specifically
associated with APL, we analysed RAR alpha gene structure and expression in APL
cells. We report here that, in one APL-derived cell line, the RAR alpha gene has 
been translocated to a locus, myl, on chromosome 15, resulting in the synthesis
of a myl/RAR alpha fusion messenger RNA. Using two probes located on either side 
of the cloned breakpoint, we have found genomic rearrangements of one or other
locus in six patients out of eight, demonstrating that the RAR alpha and/or myl
genes are frequently rearranged in APL and the breakpoints are clustered. These
findings strongly implicate retinoic acid receptor alpha in leukaemogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/347558a0 
PMID: 2170850  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Nature. 1990 Oct 11;347(6293):575-8.

Folding transition in the DNA-binding domain of GCN4 on specific binding to DNA.

Weiss MA(1), Ellenberger T, Wobbe CR, Lee JP, Harrison SC, Struhl K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Oct 11;347(6293):514-5.

Protein-DNA recognition is often mediated by a small domain containing a
recognizable structural motif, such as the helix-turn-helix or the zinc-finger.
These motifs are compact structures that dock against the DNA double helix.
Another DNA recognition motif, found in a highly conserved family of eukaryotic
transcription factors including C/EPB, Fos, Jun and CREB, consists of a
coiled-coil dimerization element the leucine-zipper and an adjoining basic region
which mediates DNA binding. Here we describe circular dichroism and 1H-NMR
spectroscopic studies of another family member, the yeast transcriptional
activator GCN4. The 58-residue DNA-binding domain of GCN4, GCN4-p, exhibits a
concentration-dependent alpha-helical transition, in accord with previous studies
of the dimerization properties of an isolated leucine-zipper peptide. The GCN4-p 
dimer is approximately 70% helical at 25 degrees C, implying that the basic
region adjacent to the leucine zipper is largely unstructured in the absence of
DNA. Strikingly, addition of DNA containing a GCN4 binding site (AP-1 site)
increases the alpha-helix content of GNC4-p to at least 95%. Thus, the basic
region acquires substantial alpha-helical structure when it binds to DNA. A
similar folding transition is observed on GCN4-p binding to the related ATF/CREB 
site, which contains an additional central base pair. The accommodation of DNA
target sites of different lengths clearly requires some flexibility in the GCN4
binding domain, despite its high alpha-helix content. Our results indicate that
the GCN4 basic region is significantly unfolded at 25 degrees C and that its
folded, alpha-helical conformation is stabilized by binding to DNA.

DOI: 10.1038/347575a0 
PMID: 2145515  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Nature. 1990 Oct 11;347(6293):563-6.

Novel potential mitotic motor protein encoded by the fission yeast cut7+ gene.

Hagan I(1), Yanagida M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biophysics, Faculty of Science, Kyoto University, Japan.

The structure equivalent to higher eukaryotic centrosomes in fission yeast, the
nuclear membrane-bound spindle pole body, is inactive during interphase. On
transition from G2 to M phase of the cell cycle, the spindle pole body
duplicates; the daughter pole bodies seed microtubules which interdigitate to
form a short spindle that elongates to span the nucleus at metaphase. We have
identified two loci which, when mutated, block spindle formation. The predicted
product of one of these genes, cut7+, contains an amino-terminal domain similar
to the kinesin heavy chain head domain, indicating that the cut7+ product could
be a spindle motor. The cut7+ gene resembles the Aspergillus nidulans putative
spindle motor gene bimC, both in terms of its organization with a homologous
amino-terminal head and no obvious heptad repeats and in the morphology of the
mutant phenotype. But we find no similarity between the carboxy termini of these 
genes, suggested that either the cut7+ gene represents a new class of kinesin
genes and that fission yeast may in addition contain a bimC homologue, or that
the carboxy termini of these mitotic kinesins are not evolutionarily conserved
and that the cut7+ gene belongs to a subgroup of bimC-related kinesins.

DOI: 10.1038/347563a0 
PMID: 2145514  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Nature. 1990 Oct 11;347(6293):572-5.

Altered protein conformation on DNA binding by Fos and Jun.

Patel L(1), Abate C, Curran T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Oncology & Virology, Roche Institute of Molecular
Biology, Nutley, New Jersey 07110.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Oct 11;347(6293):514-5.

The protein products of the c-fos and c-jun proto-oncogenes (Fos and Jun,
respectively) form a heterodimeric protein complex that interacts with the
activator protein-1 (AP-1) binding site and regulates gene transcription in
response to extracellular stimuli. Protein dimerization is mediated primarily by 
a coiled-coil-like structure termed the leucine-zipper and DNA binding occurs
primarily through regions of each protein rich in basic amino acids that contact 
both strands of the AP-1 site. The precise nature of the protein-DNA interaction 
is unknown as studies concerned with dimerization and DNA binding by Fos and Jun 
have relied on indirect methods to investigate protein-protein-DNA interactions. 
Here we have developed assay systems using fluorescence spectroscopy and circular
dichroism to monitor dimerization and DNA binding directly. The results indicate 
that the interaction of Fos and Jun with DNA results in an altered conformation
of the protein dimers and an increased alpha-helical content. These techniques
may have general application in studies concerning the interaction of
transcriptional regulatory proteins with specific DNA target sequences.

DOI: 10.1038/347572a0 
PMID: 2120592  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


121. Nature. 1990 Oct 11;347(6293):566-9.

Formation of amyloid-like fibrils in COS cells overexpressing part of the
Alzheimer amyloid protein precursor.

Maruyama K(1), Terakado K, Usami M, Yoshikawa K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Psychiatric Research Institute of Tokyo,
Japan.

A pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease is the deposition of amyloid
fibrils in the brain. The principal component of the amyloid fibril is beta/A4
protein, which is derived from a large membrane-bound glycoprotein, Alzheimer
amyloid protein precursor (APP). Although the deposition of amyloid is thought to
result from the aberrant processing of APP, the detailed molecular mechanisms of 
amyloidogenesis remain unclear. A C-terminal fragment of APP which spans the
beta/A4 and cytoplasmic domains has a tendency to self-aggregate. In an attempt
to establish a cultured-cell model for amyloid fibril formation, we have
transfected COS-1 cells with complementary DNA encoding the C-terminal 100
residues of APP. In the perinuclear regions of a small population of
DNA-transfected cells, we observed inclusion-like deposits which showed a strong 
immunohistochemical reaction towards an anti-C-terminal APP antibody or an
anti-beta/A4 amyloid core-specific antibody. Electron microscope observations of 
the inclusion-carrying cells revealed an accumulation of amyloid-like fibrils of 
8-22 nm diameter near and on the nuclear membrane. The fibrils showed a beaded or
helical structure, and reacted positively with the anti-C-terminus antibody by
immunoelectron microscopy. These results suggest that the formation of amyloid
fibrils is an inherent characteristic of the C-terminal peptide of APP. The
present system provides a suitable model for the molecular dissection of the
process of brain amyloidogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/347566a0 
PMID: 1977086  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Nature. 1990 Oct 11;347(6293):528-33.

Dwarf locus mutants lacking three pituitary cell types result from mutations in
the POU-domain gene pit-1.

Li S(1), Crenshaw EB 3rd, Rawson EJ, Simmons DM, Swanson LW, Rosenfeld MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla 92093.

Mutations at the mouse dwarf locus (dw) interrupt the normal development of the
anterior pituitary gland, resulting in the loss of expression of growth hormone, 
prolactin and thyroid-stimulating hormone, and hypoplasia of their respective
cell types. Disruptions in the gene encoding the POU-domain transcription factor,
Pit-1, occur in both characterized alleles of the dwarf locus. The data indicate 
that Pit-1 is necessary for the specification of the phenotype of three cell
types in the anterior pituitary, and directly link a transcription factor to
commitment and progression events in mammalian organogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/347528a0 
PMID: 1977085  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Nature. 1990 Oct 11;347(6293):569-72.

Structural and serological evidence for a novel mechanism of antigenic variation 
in foot-and-mouth disease virus.

Parry N(1), Fox G, Rowlands D, Brown F, Fry E, Acharya R, Logan D, Stuart D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, Wellcome Biotech, Beckenham, Kent, UK.

Changes resulting in altered antigenic properties of viruses nearly always occur 
on their surface and have been attributed to the substitution of residues
directly involved in binding antibody. To investigate the mechanism of antigenic 
variation in foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV), variants that escape
neutralization by a monoclonal antibody have been compared crystallographically
and serologically with parental virus. FMDVs form one of the four genera of the
Picornaviridae. The unenveloped icosahedral shell comprises 60 copies each of
four structural proteins VP1-4. Representatives from each of the genera have
similar overall structure, but differences in the external features. For example,
human rhinovirus has a pronounced 'canyon' that is proposed to contain the cell
attachment site, whereas elements of the attachment site for FMDV, which involves
the G-H loop (residues 134-160) and C-terminus (200-213) of VP1, are exposed on
the surface. Moreover, this G-H loop, which is a major antigenic site of FMDV,
forms a prominent, highly accessible protrusion, a feature not seen in other
picornaviruses. It is this loop that is perturbed in the variant viruses that we 
have studied. The amino acid mutations characterizing the variants are not at
positions directly involved in antibody binding, but result in far-reaching
perturbations of the surface structure of the virus. Thus, this virus seems to
use a novel escape mechanism whereby an induced conformational change in a major 
antigenic loop destroys the integrity of the epitope.

DOI: 10.1038/347569a0 
PMID: 1699132  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Nature. 1990 Oct 11;347(6293):556-8.

Reformation of long axon pathways in adult rat central nervous system by human
forebrain neuroblasts.

Wictorin K(1), Brundin P, Gustavii B, Lindvall O, Björklund A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Cell Research, University of Lund, Sweden.

The failure of lesioned axons to regenerate over long distances in the mammalian 
central nervous system (CNS) is not due to an inability of central neurons to
regenerate, but rather to the non-permissive nature of the CNS tissue
environment. Regenerating CNS axons, which grow well within a peripheral nerve,
for example, fail to penetrate mature CNS tissue by more than about 1 mm. Recent 
evidence indicates that this may be due to inhibitory membrane proteins
associated with CNS oligodendrocytes and myelin. We report here that human
telencephalic neuroblasts implanted into the excitotoxically lesioned striatum of
adult rats can escape or neutralize this inhibitory influence of the adult CNS
environment and extend axons along major myelinated fibre tracts for distances of
up to approximately 20 mm. The axons were seen to elongate along the paths of the
striato-nigral and cortico-spinal tracts to reach the substantia nigra, the
pontine nuclei and the cervical spinal cord, which are the normal targets for the
striatal and cortical projection neurons likely to be present in these implants.

DOI: 10.1038/347556a0 
PMID: 1699131  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Nature. 1990 Oct 4;347(6292):462-4.

A carbon isotope record of CO2 levels during the late Quaternary.

Jasper JP(1), Hayes JM.

Collaborators: Hayes JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geological Sciences, Indiana University, Bloomington 47405-5101,
USA.
(2)IN U, Bloomington, Depts Geol Sci & Chem

Analyses of gases trapped in continental ice sheets have shown that the
concentration of CO2 in the Earth's early atmosphere increased from 180 to 280
p.p.m. during the most recent glacial-interglacial transition. This change must
have been driven by an increase in the concentration of CO2 dissolved in the
mixed layer of the ocean. Biochemical and physiological factors associated with
photosynthetic carbon fixation in this layer should lead to a relationship
between concentrations of dissolved CO2 and the carbon isotopic composition of
phytoplanktonic organic material, such that increased atmospheric CO2 should
enhance the difference in 13C content between dissolved inorganic carbon and
organic products of photosynthesis. Here we show that a signal related to
atmospheric CO2 levels can be seen in the isotope record of a hemipelagic
sediment core, which we can correlate with the CO2 record of the Vostok ice core.
Calibration of the relationship between isotope fractionation and CO2 levels
should permit the extrapolation of CO2 records to times earlier than those for
which ice-core records are available.

DOI: 10.1038/347462a0 
PMID: 11536468  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Nature. 1990 Oct 4;347(6292):497-8.

Antibodies from Escherichia coli.

Plückthun A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Genzentrum der Universität München, FRG.

Use of Escherichia coli as an expression host has opened up new possibilities in 
antibody research and its applications. It greatly facilitates rational
engineering and random mutagenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/347497a0 
PMID: 2215666  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Nature. 1990 Oct 4;347(6292):494-6.

Identification of an actin-binding protein from Dictyostelium as elongation
factor 1a.

Yang F(1), Demma M, Warren V, Dharmawardhane S, Condeelis J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Structural Biology, Albert Einstein College of
Medicine, Bronx, New York 10461.

Indirect evidence has implicated an interaction between the cytoskeleton and the 
protein synthetic machinery. Two recent reports have linked the elongation factor
1a (EF-1a) which is involved in protein synthesis, with the microtubular
cytoskeleton. In situ hybridization has, however, revealed that the messages for 
certain cytoskeletal proteins are preferentially associated with actin filaments.
ABP-50 is an abundant actin filament bundling protein of native relative
molecular mass 50,000 (50K) isolated from Dictyostelium discoideum.
Immunofluorescence studies show that ABP-50 is present in filopodia and other
cortical regions that contain actin filament bundles. In addition, ABP-50 binds
to monomeric actin in the cytosol of unstimulated cells and the association of
ABP-50 with the actin cytoskeleton is regulated during chemotaxis. Through
complementary DNA sequencing and subsequent functional analysis, we have
identified ABP-50 as D. discoideum EF-1a. The ability of EF-1a to bind reversibly
to the actin cytoskeleton upon stimulation could provide a mechanism for
spatially and temporally regulated protein synthesis in eukaryotic cells.

DOI: 10.1038/347494a0 
PMID: 2215665  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Nature. 1990 Oct 4;347(6292):491-4.

RNA polymerase II C-terminal repeat influences response to transcriptional
enhancer signals.

Scafe C(1), Chao D, Lopes J, Hirsch JP, Henry S, Young RA.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Nine Cambridge Center,
Massachusetts 02142.

The large subunit of RNA polymerase II contains a highly conserved and essential 
heptapeptide repeat (Pro-Thr-Ser-Pro-Ser-Tyr-Ser) at its carboxy terminus.
Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells are inviable if their RNA polymerase II large
subunit genes encode fewer than 10 complete heptapeptide repeats; if they encode 
10 to 12 complete repeats cells are temperature-sensitive and cold-sensitive, but
13 or more complete repeats will allow wild-type growth at all temperatures.
Cells containing C-terminal domains (CTDs) of 10 to 12 complete repeats are also 
inositol auxotrophs. The phenotypes associated with these CTD mutations are not a
consequence of an instability of the large subunit; rather, they seem to reflect 
a functional deficiency of the mutant enzyme. We show here that partial deletion 
mutations in RNA polymerase II CTD affect the ability of the enzyme to respond to
signals from upstream activating sequences in a subset of promoters in yeast. The
number of heptapeptide repeats required for maximal response to signals from
these sequences differs from one upstream activating sequence to another. One of 
the upstream elements that is sensitive to truncations of the CTD is the
17-base-pair site bound by the GAL4 transactivating factor.

DOI: 10.1038/347491a0 
PMID: 2215664  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Nature. 1990 Oct 4;347(6292):483-5.

Small rearrangements in structures of Fv and Fab fragments of antibody D1.3 on
antigen binding.

Bhat TN(1), Bentley GA, Fischmann TO, Boulot G, Poljak RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Département d'Immunologie, Institut Pasteur, Paris, France.

The potential use of monoclonal antibodies in immunological, chemical and
clinical applications has stimulated the protein engineering and expression of Fv
fragments, which are heterodimers consisting of the light and heavy chain
variable domains (VL and VH) of antibodies. Although Fv fragments exhibit antigen
binding specificity and association constants similar to their parent antibodies 
or Fab moieties, similarity in their interactions with antigen at the level of
three-dimensional structure has not been investigated. We have determined the
high-resolution crystal structure of the genetically engineered FvD1.3 fragment
of the anti-hen egg-white lysozyme (HEL) monoclonal antibody D1.3, and of its
complex with HEL. On comparison with the crystallographically refined FabD1.3-HEL
complex, we find that FvD1.3 and FabD1.3 make, with minor exceptions, very
similar contacts with the antigen. Furthermore, a small but systematic
rearrangement of the domains of FvD1.3 occurs on binding HEL, bringing the
contacting residues closer to the antigen by a mean value of about 0.7 A for VH
(aligning on VL) or of 0.5 A for VL (aligning on VH). This is indicative of an
induced fit rather than a 'lock and key' fit to the antigen.

DOI: 10.1038/347483a0 
PMID: 2215663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Nature. 1990 Oct 4;347(6292):479-82.

The scid mutation in mice causes a general defect in DNA repair.

Fulop GM(1), Phillips RA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Immunology and Cancer Research, Hospital for Sick Children,
Toronto, Canada.

Mice homozygous for the scid mutation on chromosome 16 have a severe combined
immune deficiency as a result of their inability to correctly rearrange their
immunoglobulin and T-cell receptor genes. In scid mice, when precursors for B and
T lymphocytes reach the stage of development requiring expression of these
surface receptors, a defective recombinase system aberrantly cuts and rejoins the
receptor gene segments greatly reducing the efficiency of producing functional
receptors. As a result, most scid mice have no detectable B or T lymphocytes. We 
have demonstrated that the scid defect is not specific to lymphocyte development.
Myeloid cells and fibroblasts from scid mice show a marked increase in
sensitivity to ionizing radiation, indicating that the scid mutation leads to an 
inability to repair DNA damage induced by ionizing radiation as well as
interfering with rearrangement of the immunoglobulin and T-cell receptor genes.

DOI: 10.1038/347479a0 
PMID: 2215662  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Nature. 1990 Oct 4;347(6292):488-91.

Isolation and characterization of the gene for a yeast mitochondrial import
receptor.

Murakami H(1), Blobel G, Pain D.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Rockefeller University, New York, New York
10021.

We have previously identified an integral membrane protein (p32) from
Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a receptor for protein import into mitochondria, and 
have localized it to the mitochondrial outer membrane at contact sites. Here we
report isolation of the corresponding mitochondrial import receptor gene, termed 
MIR1. The deduced amino-acid sequence of p32 shows roughly 40% identity with
proteins of bovine heart and rat liver that have been suggested to be
mitochondrial phosphate carriers. Haploid cells carrying a disrupted MIR1 allele 
were unable to grow on a non-fermentable carbon source but grew in media
containing glucose, indicating that the MIR1 protein is essential for
mitochondrial function. Compared with wild type, amounts of some mitochondrial
proteins were markedly reduced in cells containing a disrupted MIR1 allele,
whereas levels of others were unchanged. This indicates that yeast contains more 
than one pathway for protein import into mitochondria.

DOI: 10.1038/347488a0 
PMID: 2170848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Nature. 1990 Oct 4;347(6292):444-9.

Identification of a receptor for protein import into mitochondria.

Pain D(1), Murakami H, Blobel G.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Rockefeller University, New York, New York
10021.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Oct 4;347(6292):424-5.

Anti-idiotypic antibodies, prepared using a chemically synthesized signal peptide
of a mitochondrial precursor protein, recognized a mitochondrial integral
membrane protein (p32). Fab fragments derived from both anti-idiotypic antibodies
and monospecific antibodies against purified p32 inhibited protein import into
mitochondria. Moreover, anti-p32 antibodies specifically immunoprecipitated a
precursor-p32 complex after detergent solubilization of mitochondria.
Immunoelectron microscopy and subfractionation of mitochondria indicate that p32 
is located in contact sites between the outer and inner mitochondrial membranes.

DOI: 10.1038/347444a0 
PMID: 2170847  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Nature. 1990 Oct 4;347(6292):485-7.

Secretion of immunoglobulin M assembly intermediates in the presence of reducing 
agents.

Alberini CM(1), Bet P, Milstein C, Sitia R.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Chimica, Facoltà di Medicina, Università degli Studi di Brescia,
Italy.

There are several demonstrations that misfolded or unassembled proteins are not
transported along the secretory pathway, but are retained intracellularly,
generally in the endoplasmic reticulum. For instance, B lymphocytes synthesize
but do not secrete IgM, and only the polymeric form of IgM is secreted by plasma 
cells. The C-terminal cysteine of the mu heavy chain of secreted IgM (residue
575) is involved in the intracellular retention of unpolymerized IgM subunits.
Here we report that the addition of reducing agents to the culture medium, at
concentrations which do not affect cell viability, terminal glycosylation, or
retention of proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum through the KDEL mechanism,
induces secretion of IgM assembly intermediates by both B and plasma cells. Free 
joining (J) chains, which are not normally secreted by plasma cells unless as
part of IgM or IgA, are also secreted in the presence of reducing agents. We
propose a role for free thiol groups in preventing the unhindered transport of
proteins through the secretory pathway. Under the scheme, assembly intermediates 
interact through their thiol groups between themselves and/or with unknown
proteins of the endoplasmic reticulum. Such interactions may be prevented by
altering the intracellular redox potential or by site-directed mutagenesis of the
relevant cysteine residue(s).

DOI: 10.1038/347485a0 
PMID: 2120591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Nature. 1990 Oct 4;347(6292):477-9.

Two components of long-term potentiation induced by different patterns of
afferent activation.

Grover LM(1), Teyler TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology Department, Northeastern Ohio Universities College of Medicine,
Rootstown 44272.

Long-term potentiation (LTP) of excitatory synaptic transmission could be a
mechanism underlying memory. Induction of LTP requires Ca2+ influx into
postsynaptic neurons through ion channels gated by NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate)
receptors in hippocampus (area CA1 and dentate gyrus) and neocortex. Here we
report that a component of LTP not requiring the activation of NMDA receptors can
be induced in area CA1. The component is dependent on tetanus frequency, requires
increases in postsynaptic intracellular Ca2+ concentrations, and is suppressed by
an antagonist of voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels.

DOI: 10.1038/347477a0 
PMID: 1977084  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Nature. 1990 Sep 27;347(6291):406-8.

In vitro genetic analysis of the Tetrahymena self-splicing intron.

Green R(1), Ellington AD, Szostak JW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston 02114.

The availability of methods for the amplification of nucleic acid sequences
allows the genetic analysis in vitro of the structural and functional properties 
of many nucleic acids. We have now developed an in vitro selection and
amplification system, and used it to analyse the self-splicing Tetrahymena
ribozyme. A much wider range of selective conditions can be used in vitro than is
possible with standard in vivo methods, and many more variants can be handled in 
vitro than in vivo. This method can be used to isolate the wild-type ribozyme,
and structural variants that are as active as the wild type, from a pool of over 
250,000 variants in only three cycles of selection and amplification.

DOI: 10.1038/347406a0 
PMID: 2215650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Nature. 1990 Sep 27;347(6291):402-6.

High specificity of a phosphate transport protein determined by hydrogen bonds.

Luecke H(1), Quiocho FA.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas
77030.

Transport of the essential nutrient phosphorus--primarily in the form of
orthophosphate--into cells and organelles is highly specific. This is exemplified
by the uptake of phosphate or its close analogue arsenate by bacterial cells by
way of a high affinity active transport system dependent on a phosphate-binding
protein; this system is unable to recognize other inorganic oxyanions and is,
moreover, distinct from the one for sulphate transport. The phosphate-binding
protein is a member of a family of periplasmic proteins acting as initial
high-affinity receptors for the osmotic shock-sensitive active transport systems 
or permeases for various sugars, amino acids, oligopeptides, and oxyanions. We
report here the highly refined 1.7 A resolution X-ray structure of the liganded
form of the phosphate-binding protein. The structure reveals the atomic features 
responsible for phosphate selectivity, either in monobasic or dibasic form, and
the exclusion of sulphate. These features are fundamental to understanding
phosphate transport systems and molecular recognition of charged substrates or
ions in other biological processes.

DOI: 10.1038/347402a0 
PMID: 2215649  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Nature. 1990 Sep 27;347(6291):400-2.

Hypervariable ultra-long telomeres in mice.

Kipling D(1), Cooke HJ.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Genetics Unit, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, UK.

Telomere structure and behaviour is less well understood in vertebrates than it
is in ciliates and yeasts (reviewed in ref. 1). Like all other eukaryotic
chromosomes, those of vertebrates terminate in an array of a short repeated
sequence. In vertebrates this sequence is (TTAGGG)n, as shown by in situ
hybridization. In humans, these terminal repeats are heterogeneous in length,
averaging about 10 kilobases in blood cells. Here we report the structure and
inheritance of the terminal repeats present at mouse telomeres. The (TTAGGG)n
tracts are many times larger than those present at human telomeres. Because of
their constancy in length through somatic cell divisions, they are resolved as
multiple discrete restriction fragments of up to 150 kilobases. Strikingly, this 
banding pattern is highly polymorphic within populations of inbred mice,
suggesting an unusually high mutation rate. Indeed, although the banding pattern 
is inherited in a largely mendelian fashion, (TTAGGG)n tracts of new size appear 
frequently in family studies.

DOI: 10.1038/347400a0 
PMID: 2170845  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Nature. 1990 Sep 27;347(6291):396-400.

Co-capping of ras proteins with surface immunoglobulins in B lymphocytes.

Graziadei L(1), Riabowol K, Bar-Sagi D.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, New York 11724.

Cellular ras genes encode a family of membrane-associated proteins (p21ras) that 
bind guanine nucleotide and possess a low intrinsic GTPase activity. The p21ras
proteins are ubiquitously expressed in mammalian cells and are thought to be
involved in a growth-promoting signal transduction pathway; their mode of action,
however, remains unknown. The ligand-induced movement of cell-surface receptors
seems to be a primary event in the transduction of several extracellular signals 
that control cell growth and differentiation. In B lymphocytes, surface
immunoglobulin receptors crosslinked by antibody or other multivalent ligands
form aggregates called patches, which then collect into a single assembly, a cap,
at one pole of the cell. This process constitutes the initial signal for the
activation of a B cell. Here we show by immunofluorescence microscopy that p21ras
co-caps with surface immunoglobulin molecules in mouse splenic B lymphocytes. In 
contrast, no apparent change in the distribution of p21ras occurs during the
capping of concanavalin A receptors. The redistribution of p21ras is apparent at 
the early stages (patching) of immunoglobulin capping and is inhibited by
metabolic inhibitors and the cytoskeleton-disrupting agents colchicine and
cytochalasin D. The distribution of another membrane-associated guanine
nucleotide-binding regulatory protein, the Gi alpha subunit, is not affected by
surface immunoglobulin capping. These findings demonstrate that p21ras can
migrate in a directed manner along the plasma membrane and suggest that p21ras
may be a component of the signalling pathway initiated by the capping of surface 
immunoglobulin in B lymphocytes.

DOI: 10.1038/347396a0 
PMID: 2120590  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Nature. 1990 Sep 27;347(6291):386-8.

Inhibition by dopamine of (Na(+)+K+)ATPase activity in neostriatal neurons
through D1 and D2 dopamine receptor synergism.

Bertorello AM(1), Hopfield JF, Aperia A, Greengard P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, St Göran's Children's Hospital, Karolinska
Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.

The (Na(+)+K+)ATPase, an integral membrane protein located in virtually all
animal cells, couples the hydrolysis of ATP to the countertransport of Na+ and K+
ions across the plasma membrane. In neurons, a large portion of cellular energy
is expended by this enzyme to maintain the ionic gradients that underlie resting 
and action potentials. Although neurotransmitter regulation of the enzyme in
brain has been reported, such regulation has been characterized either as a
nonspecific phenomenon or as an indirect effect of neurotransmitter-induced
changes in ionic gradients. We report here that the neurotransmitter dopamine,
through a synergistic effect on D1 and D2 receptors, inhibits the
(Na(+)+K+)ATPase activity of isolated striatal neurons. Our data provide
unequivocal evidence for regulation by a neurotransmitter of a neuronal ion pump.
They also demonstrate that synergism between D1 and D2 receptors, which underlies
many of the electrophysical and behavioural effects of dopamine in the mammalian 
brain, can occur on the same neuron. In addition, the results support the
possibility that dopamine and other neurotransmitters can regulate neuronal
excitability through the novel mechanism of pump inhibition.

DOI: 10.1038/347386a0 
PMID: 1977083  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Nature. 1990 Sep 27;347(6291):394-6.

Downregulation of enkephalin-mediated inflammatory responses by CD10/neutral
endopeptidase 24.11.

Shipp MA(1), Stefano GB, D'Adamio L, Switzer SN, Howard FD, Sinisterra J,
Scharrer B, Reinherz EL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Immunobiology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts.

The antigen CD10 (common acute lymphoblastic leukaemia antigen), which is the
zinc metalloprotease, neutral endopeptidase 24.11 (also known as NEP or
'enkephalinase'), is expressed by acute lymphoblastic leukaemias, normal lymphoid
progenitors, mature polymorphonuclear leukocytes and certain nonhaematopoietic
cells. CD10/NEP hydrolyses several naturally occurring peptides, including the
endogenous opioid pentapeptides Met- and Leu-enkephalin. In invertebrate
organisms such as the mollusc Mytilus edulis, Met-enkephalin triggers
inflammatory responses by inducing morphological changes, directed migration and 
aggregation of haemocytes. We report here that a structure related to CD10/NEP is
expressed by M. edulis haemocytes and that abrogation of CD10/NEP enzymatic
activity reduces the amount of Met-enkephalin required for haemocyte activation
by five orders of magnitude. Similar results are obtained with CD10+ human
polymorphonuclear leukocytes, indicating that CD10/NEP related structures
regulate enkephalin-mediated inflammatory responses in organisms whose ancestors 
diverged approximately 500 million years ago.

DOI: 10.1038/347394a0 
PMID: 1699130  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Nature. 1990 Sep 27;347(6291):391-4.

Graded changes in dose of a Xenopus activin A homologue elicit stepwise
transitions in embryonic cell fate.

Green JB(1), Smith JC.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Embryogenesis, National Institute for Medical Research, Mill
Hill, London, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Sep 27;347(6291):337-8.

The protein XTC-MIF, a Xenopus homologue of activin A and a potent
mesoderm-inducing factor, can induce responding animal pole explants to form
several different cell types in a dose-dependent manner, higher doses eliciting
more dorso-anterior tissues. This graded response, characteristic of classically 
postulated morphogens, may underlie pattern formation, but the response of intact
animal caps to XTC-MIF provides only a crude indication of trends. Here we report
the effects of XTC-MIF on dispersed blastomeres rather than intact animal caps.
Under these conditions, responding cells distinguish sharply between doses of
pure XTC-MIF differing by less than 1.5-fold. Two different response thresholds
have been found, defining three cell states. This suggests that XTC-MIF has an
instructive effect. Notochord and muscle are both induced in the same narrow
dose-range. Mixing treated with untreated cells does not seem to shift the dose
thresholds, showing that at least some cells can stably record the received dose 
of inducing factor.

DOI: 10.1038/347391a0 
PMID: 1699129  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Nature. 1990 Sep 27;347(6291):388-91.

Activation of latent Ca2+ channels in renal epithelial cells by parathyroid
hormone.

Bacskai BJ(1), Friedman PA.

Author information: 
(1)Thayer School of Engineering, Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire.

Calcium has an important role in regulating epithelial cell ion transport and is 
itself transported by tissues involved in the maintenance of extracellular Ca2+
homeostasis. Although the mechanism of Ca2+ entry in electrically excitable cells
is well-documented little is known about it in epithelial cells. Calcium
absorption in polarized epithelial cells is a two-step process in which Ca2+
enters cells across apical plasma membranes and is extruded across basolateral
membranes. Efflux may be mediated by an energy-dependent Ca2(+)-ATPase or by
Na+/Ca2+ exchange. We examined Ca2+ influx in single cultured cells from distal
renal tubules sensitive to parathyroid hormone by measuring intracellular Ca2+.
Our results demonstrate that parathyroid hormone activates
dihydropyridine-sensitive channels responsible for Ca2+ entry. We also show that 
microtubule-dependent exocytosis stimulated by parathyroid hormone may be
necessary for the insertion or activation of Ca2+ channels in these cells. Once
inserted or activated, dihydropyridine-sensitive channels mediate Ca2+ entry into
these Ca2(+)-transporting epithelial cells. Our results support the view that
agonist-induced exocytosis may represent a general paradigm for modulation of
transport in epithelial cells by delivery and incorporation of transport proteins
to plasma membranes or by delivery to plasma membranes of factors regulating
these proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/347388a0 
PMID: 1699128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Nature. 1990 Sep 27;347(6291):382-6.

Expression and characterization of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance 
regulator.

Gregory RJ(1), Cheng SH, Rich DP, Marshall J, Paul S, Hehir K, Ostedgaard L,
Klinger KW, Welsh MJ, Smith AE.

Author information: 
(1)Genzyme Corporation, Framingham, Massachusetts.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Sep 20;347(6290):226.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a common lethal genetic disease that manifests itself in 
airway and other epithelial cells as defective chloride ion absorption and
secretion, resulting at least in part from a defect in a cyclic AMP-regulated,
outwardly-rectifying Cl- channel in the apical surface. The gene responsible for 
CF has been identified and predicted to encode a membrane protein termed the CF
transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). Identification of a cryptic bacterial
promoter within the CFTR coding sequence led us to construct a complementary DNA 
in a low-copy-number plasmid, thereby avoiding the deleterious effects of CFTR
expression on Escherischia coli. We have used this cDNA to express CFTR in vitro 
and in vivo. Here we demonstrate that CFTR is a membrane-associated glycoprotein 
that can be phosporylated in vitro by cAMP-dependent protein kinase. Polyclonal
and monoclonal antibodies directed against distinct domains of the protein
immunoprecipitated recombinant CFTR as well as the endogenous CFTR in
nonrecombinant T84 cells. Partial proteolysis fingerprinting showed that the
recombinant and non-recombinant proteins are indistinguishable. These data, which
establish several characteristics of the protein responsible for CF, will now
enable CFTR function to be studied and will provide a basis for diagnosis and
therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/347382a0 
PMID: 1699127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Nature. 1990 Sep 27;347(6291):358-63.

Expression of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator corrects
defective chloride channel regulation in cystic fibrosis airway epithelial cells.

Rich DP(1), Anderson MP, Gregory RJ, Cheng SH, Paul S, Jefferson DM, McCann JD,
Klinger KW, Smith AE, Welsh MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Internal Medicine, University
of Iowa College of Medicine, Iowa City 52242.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Sep 20;347(6290):226.

The cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) was expressed in
cultured cystic fibrosis airway epithelial cells and Cl- channel activation
assessed in single cells using a fluorescence microscopic assay and the
patch-clamp technique. Expression of CFTR, but not of a mutant form of CFTR
(delta F508), corrected the Cl- channel defect. Correction of the phenotypic
defect demonstrates a causal relationship between mutations in the CFTR gene and 
defective Cl- transport which is the hallmark of the disease.

DOI: 10.1038/347358a0 
PMID: 1699126  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Nature. 1990 Sep 20;347(6290):301-3.

Studying single living cells and chromosomes by confocal Raman microspectroscopy.

Puppels GJ(1), de Mul FF, Otto C, Greve J, Robert-Nicoud M, Arndt-Jovin DJ, Jovin
TM.

Author information: 
(1)University of Twente, Department of Applied Physics, Enschede, The
Netherlands.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Sep 20;347(6290):230.

Many indirect methods have been developed to study the constitution and
conformation of macromolecules inside the living cell. Direct analysis by Raman
spectroscopy is an ideal complement to techniques using directly labelled
fluorescent probes or of indirect labelling with mono- and polyclonal antibodies.
The high information content of Raman spectra can characterize biological
macromolecules both in solution and in crystals. The positions, intensities and
linewidths of the Raman lines (corresponding to vibrational energy levels) in
spectra of DNA-protein complexes yield information about the composition,
secondary structure and interactions of these molecules, including the chemical
microenvironment of molecular subgroups. The main drawback of the method is the
low Raman scattering cross-section of biological macromolecules, which until now 
has prohibited studies at the level of the single cell with the exception of
(salmon) sperm heads, in which the DNA is condensed to an exceptionally high
degree. Ultraviolet-resonance Raman spectroscopy has been used to obtain single
cell spectra (and F. Sureau and P. Y. Turpin, personal communication), but in
this method absorption of laser light may impair the integrity of the sample. We 
have avoided this problem in developing a novel, highly sensitive confocal Raman 
microspectrometer for nonresonant Raman spectroscopy. Our instrument makes it
possible to study single cells and chromosomes with a high spatial resolution
(approximately less than 1 micron 3).

DOI: 10.1038/347301a0 
PMID: 2205805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Nature. 1990 Sep 20;347(6290):294-8.

Frequent activation of N-myc genes by hepadnavirus insertion in woodchuck liver
tumours.

Fourel G(1), Trepo C, Bougueleret L, Henglein B, Ponzetto A, Tiollais P, Buendia 
MA.

Author information: 
(1)Unité de Recombinaison et Expression Génétique (INSERM U.163, CNRS URA 271),
Paris, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Sep 20;347(6290):230-2.

The recent finding of c-myc activation by insertion of woodchuck hepatitis virus 
DNA in two independent hepatocellular carcinoma has given support to the
hypothesis that integration of hepatitis B viruses into the host genome, observed
in most human and woodchuck liver tumours, might contribute to oncogenesis. We
report here high frequency of woodchuck hepatitis virus DNA integrations in two
newly identified N-myc genes: N-myc1, the homologue of known mammalian N-myc
genes, and N-myc2, an intronless 'complementary DNA gene' or 'retroposon' that
has retained extensive coding and transforming homology with N-myc. N-myc2 is
totally silent in normal liver, but is overexpressed without genetic
rearrangements in most liver tumours. Moreover, viral integrations occur within
either N-myc1 or N-myc2 in about 20% of the tumours, giving rise to chimaeric
messenger RNAs in which the 3' untranslated region of N-myc was replaced by
woodchuck hepatitis virus sequences encompassing the viral enhancer. Insertion
sites were clustered in a short sequence of the third exon that coincides with a 
retroviral integration hotspot within the murine N-myc gene, recently described
in T-cell lymphomas induced by murine leukaemia virus. Thus, comparable
mechanisms, leading to deregulated expression of N-myc genes, may operate in the 
development of tumours induced either by hepatitis virus or by nonacute
retroviruses in rodents. Activation of myc genes by insertion of hepadnavirus DNA
now emerges as a common event in the genesis of woodchuck hepatocellular
carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1038/347294a0 
PMID: 2205804  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Nature. 1990 Sep 20;347(6290):249-55.

A second class of synthetase structure revealed by X-ray analysis of Escherichia 
coli seryl-tRNA synthetase at 2.5 A.

Cusack S(1), Berthet-Colominas C, Härtlein M, Nassar N, Leberman R.

Author information: 
(1)Grenoble Outstation, European Molecular Biology Laboratory, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Sep 20;347(6290):231.

The three-dimensional crystal structure of seryl-transfer RNA synthetase from
Escherichia coli, refined at 2.5 A resolution, is described. It has an N-terminal
domain that forms an antiparallel alpha helical coiled-coil, stretching 60 A out 
into the solvent and stabilized by interhelical hydrophobic interactions and an
active-site alpha-beta domain based around a seven-stranded antiparallel beta
sheet. Unlike the three other known synthetase structures, the enzyme contains no
classical nucleotide-binding fold, and is the first representative of a second
class of aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase structures.

DOI: 10.1038/347249a0 
PMID: 2205803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Nature. 1990 Sep 20;347(6290):298-301.

Relationship between the product of the Drosophila ultraspiracle locus and the
vertebrate retinoid X receptor.

Oro AE(1), McKeown M, Evans RM.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, La Jolla, California.

The vitamin A derivative, retinoic acid, can regulate morphogenesis and
differentiation in vertebrates. Two different subfamilies of the steroid receptor
superfamily of transcription factors, the retinoic acid receptors and the
retinoid X receptor, mediate the effects of retinoic acid. As part of an analysis
of the hormonal control of development, we have examined the Drosophila genome
for retinoic acid receptor homologues. Here we describe one such gene, XR2C,
which encodes a product with structural similarity to the human retinoic
acid-responsive transcription factor, retinoid X receptor. This receptor-like
protein is encoded by ultraspiracle (usp), a locus required both maternally and
zygotically for pattern formation. The discovery that the usp product is a
retinoid X receptor homologue suggests that similar chemical cues underlie
morphogenic signalling in vertebrate and invertebrate systems.

DOI: 10.1038/347298a0 
PMID: 2169594  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Nature. 1990 Sep 20;347(6290):291-4.

Sequence homology shared by neurofibromatosis type-1 gene and IRA-1 and IRA-2
negative regulators of the RAS cyclic AMP pathway.

Buchberg AM(1), Cleveland LS, Jenkins NA, Copeland NG.

Author information: 
(1)ABL-Basic Research Program, NCI-Frederick Cancer Research and Development
Center, Maryland 21702.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Nov 15;348(6298):201.

Neurofibromatosis type-1 (NF-1) is one of the most frequently inherited genetic
disorders affecting humans. NF-1 primarily affects cells of neural crest origin
and is characterized by patches of skin pigmentation (café-au-lait spots) and
neurofibromas. Cloning of the human NF-1 gene shows that it encodes an 11-13
kilobase transcript that is frequently disrupted in NF-1 patients. The frequent
disruption of the NF-1 gene in NF-1 patients combined with the autosomal dominant
mode of inheritance of NF-1 strongly suggest that the NF-1 gene is a
tumour-suppressor gene. We have now sequenced a portion of the murine NF-1 gene
and show that the predicted amino-acid sequence is nearly the same as the
corresponding region of the human NF-1 gene product. Northern blotting identified
mouse NF-1 transcripts that are equivalent in size and complexity to those in
human tissues, and Southern blotting shows that this region of the NF-1 gene is
evolutionarily well conserved. Finally, computer searches identified homology
between the mouse NF-1 gene and IRA-1 and IRA-2, two genes identified in
Saccharomyces cerevisiae that negatively regulate the RAS-cyclic AMP pathway.
These findings provide important new insights into the possible function of the
NF-1 gene.

DOI: 10.1038/347291a0 
PMID: 2169593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Nature. 1990 Sep 20;347(6290):284-6.

Anion channels activated by adrenaline in cardiac myocytes.

Ehara T(1), Ishihara K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Saga Medical School, Japan.

In heart cells, the catecholamine-activated cyclic AMP system regulates calcium
and potassium channels. We report here a novel class of chloride channels that
can be activated by adrenaline in mammalian ventricular cells. Like the
agonist-activated Cl- channel currents of airway and colonic epithelial cells,
the cardiac Cl(-)-channel current shows outward rectification. But the unit
conductance of cardiac Cl- channels is smaller than that of epithelial Cl-
channels. The cardiac Cl- channel is functionally voltage-independent, in
contrast to the Cl- channel in colonic epithelial cells. This channel could be
responsible for the beta-catecholamine-induced increase in cardiac membrane
conductance that has been attributed to activation of a Cl- current. Thus,
sympathetic control of cardiac electrical activity involves not only the
voltage-dependent, excitation-related cation channels, but also anion channels
that generate a steady current.

DOI: 10.1038/347284a0 
PMID: 2169592  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Nature. 1990 Sep 20;347(6290):281-4.

Clustering of L-type Ca2+ channels at the base of major dendrites in hippocampal 
pyramidal neurons.

Westenbroek RE(1), Ahlijanian MK, Catterall WA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle 98195.

Integration and processing of electrical signals in individual neurons depend
critically on the spatial distribution of ion channels on the cell surface. In
hippocampal pyramidal neurons, voltage-sensitive calcium channels have important 
roles in the control of Ca2(+)-dependent cellular processes such as action
potential generation, neurotransmitter release, and epileptogenesis. Long-term
potentiation of synaptic transmission in the hippocampal pyramidal cell, a form
of neuronal plasticity that is thought to represent a cellular correlate of
learning and memory, is dependent on Ca2+ entry mediated by synaptic activation
of glutamate receptors that have a high affinity for NMDA (N-methyl(-D-aspartate)
and are located in distal dendrites. Stimuli causing long-term potentiation at
these distal synapses also cause a large local increase in cytosolic Ca2+ in the 
proximal regions of dendrites. This increase has been proposed to result from
activation of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. At least four types of voltage-gated
Ca2+ channels, designated N, L. T and P, may be involved in these processes. Here
we show that L-type Ca2+ channels, visualized using a monoclonal antibody, are
located in the cell bodies and proximal dendrites of hippocampal pyramidal cells 
and are clustered in high density at the base of major dendrites. We suggest that
these high densities of L-type Ca2+ channels may serve to mediate Ca2+ entry into
the pyramidal cell body and proximal dendrites in response to summed excitatory
inputs to the distal dendrites and to initiate intracellular regulatory events in
the cell body in response to the same synaptic inputs that cause long-term
potentiation at distal dendritic synapses.

DOI: 10.1038/347281a0 
PMID: 2169591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Nature. 1990 Sep 20;347(6290):286-9.

Death of mature T cells by separate ligation of CD4 and the T-cell receptor for
antigen.

Newell MK(1), Haughn LJ, Maroun CR, Julius MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, McGill University, Montreal,
Quebec, Canada.

Effector T cells are restricted to recognizing antigens associated with major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules. Specific recognition is mediated by
the alpha beta heterodimer of the T-cell receptor (TCR)/CD3 complex, although
other membrane components are involved in T-cell antigen recognition and
functions. There has been much controversy in this regard over the part played by
the CD4 glycoprotein. It is known that expression of CD4 correlates closely with 
the cell's ability to recognize antigens bound to class II MHC molecules and that
CD4 can bind to class II molecules. Also monoclonal antibodies to CD4 can modify 
signals generated through the TCR/CD3 complex. It has therefore been proposed
that CD4 binds to class II molecules, coaggregates with the TCR-CD3 complex and
aids the activation of T cells. But given that TCR can itself impart restriction 
on the cell, it remains unclear whether the contribution of CD4-derived signals
to those generated through the TCR alpha beta-CD3 complex is central to this
activation. Here we report that when preceded by ligation of CD4, signalling
through TCR alpha beta results in T cell unresponsiveness due to the induction of
activation dependent cell death by apoptosis. These results imply that CD4 is
critically involved in determining the outcome of signals generated through TCR, 
and could explain why the induction of effector T cells needs to be
MHC-restricted.

DOI: 10.1038/347286a0 
PMID: 2144894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Nature. 1990 Sep 20;347(6290):256-61.

Molecular cloning of the microtubule-associated mechanochemical enzyme dynamin
reveals homology with a new family of GTP-binding proteins.

Obar RA(1), Collins CA, Hammarback JA, Shpetner HS, Vallee RB.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology Group, Worcester Foundation for Experimental Biology, Shrewsbury,
Massachusetts 01545.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Sep 20;347(6290):229.

A complementary DNA encoding the D100 polypeptide of rat brain dynamin--a
force-producing, microtubule-activated nucleotide triphosphatase--has been cloned
and sequenced. The predicted amino acid sequence includes a guanine
nucleotide-binding domain that is homologous with those of a family of antiviral 
factors, inducible by interferon and known as Mx proteins, and with the product
of the essential yeast vacuolar protein sorting gene VPS1. These relationships
imply the existence of a new family of GTPases with physiological roles that may 
include microtubule-based motility and protein sorting.

DOI: 10.1038/347256a0 
PMID: 2144893  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Nature. 1990 Sep 20;347(6290):289-90.

Different amino acids at position 57 of the HLA-DQ beta chain associated with
susceptibility and resistance to IgA deficiency.

Olerup O(1), Smith CI, Hammarström L.

Author information: 
(1)Center for BioTechnology, Karolinska Institute, NOVUM, Huddinge, Sweden.

The human leukocyte antigens (HLA) are implicated in the genetic susceptibility
to a large number of diseases. Some of the diseases associated with HLA class II 
are related to specific amino acids or epitopes of the domain of the HLA class II
molecule that is distal to the membrane. In man, selective immunoglobulin A
deficiency is the most common immunodeficiency, frequently resulting in recurrent
sino-pulmonary infections and gastro-intestinal disorders. Associations have been
described with HLA class I, and to a lesser extent with different class II
alleles, which might indicate that they share some common feature. Here we study 
95 IgA-D patients and find positive associations with three DR-DQ haplotypes and 
a strong negative association with a fourth haplotype. Comparison of the
sequences of the polymorphic amino-terminal domain of the DQ beta chain showed
that the three 'susceptibility' haplotypes all had a neutral alanine or valine at
position 57. The 'protective' allele had the negatively charged aspartic acid at 
this position (Asp57). Codon 57 of the HLA-DQ beta chain has been implicated in
the susceptibility to insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Our data suggest that 
the same amino acid position could possibly also influence susceptibility and
resistance to selective immunoglobulin A deficiency.

DOI: 10.1038/347289a0 
PMID: 1976229  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Nature. 1990 Sep 20;347(6290):306-9.

Three-dimensional structure of ribonuclease H from E. coli.

Katayanagi K(1), Miyagawa M, Matsushima M, Ishikawa M, Kanaya S, Ikehara M,
Matsuzaki T, Morikawa K.

Author information: 
(1)Protein Engineering Research Institute, Osaka, Japan.

The three-dimensional structure of RNase H from Escherichia coli was determined
at 1.8 A resolution by X-ray crystallography. The enzyme was found to belong to
the alpha + beta class of structures, consisting of two distinct domains. The
structure implies a possible region interacting with a DNA-RNA hybrid. The
Mg2(+)-binding site essential for activity is located near a cluster of four
acidic amino acids--one glutamic and three aspartic acid residues. These residues
are completely conserved in the homology alignment of sequences of RNase H and
reverse transcriptases from retroviruses and retrovirus-like entities. The
structural motif of beta strands around the Mg2(+)-binding site has similarities 
to that in DNase I.

DOI: 10.1038/347306a0 
PMID: 1698262  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Nature. 1990 Sep 13;347(6289):194-7.

Genetic linkage studies suggest that Alzheimer's disease is not a single
homogeneous disorder.

St George-Hyslop PH(1), Haines JL, Farrer LA, Polinsky R, Van Broeckhoven C,
Goate A, McLachlan DR, Orr H, Bruni AC, Sorbi S, Rainero I, Foncin JF, Pollen D, 
Cantu JM, Tupler R, Voskresenskaya N, Mayeux R, Growden J, Fried VA, Myers RH,
Nee L, Backhovens H, Martin JJ, Rossor M, Owen MJ, Mullan M, Percy ME, Karlinsky 
H, Rich S, Heston L, Montesi M, Mortilla M, Nacmias N, Gusella JF, Hardy JA; FAD 
Collaborative Study Group, et al.

Collaborators: Abe K, Amaducci L, Bergamini L, Bruyland M, Cappa S, Connor L, De 
Winter G, Drachmann D, Feldman RG, Fracarro M, Franco ME, Frommelt P, Gavrilova
SI, Gei G, Gheuens J, Haynes A, Henry J, James L, James MF, O'Donnell B,
Piacentini S, Pinessi L, Roques P, Ruiz C, Swearer J, Tanzi RE, Vandenberghe A,
Vartanian M, Vaula G, Watkins PC, Williamson R.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Neurogenetics Lab., Depts. Neurology and General Internal Medicine, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, 32 Fruit Street, Boston, MA 02114, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Sep 13;347(6289):124.

Alzheimer's disease, a fatal neurodegenerative disorder of unknown aetiology, is 
usually considered to be a single disorder because of the general uniformity of
the disease phenotype. Two recent genetic linkage studies revealed co-segregation
of familial Alzheimer disease with the D21S1/S11 and D21S16 loci on chromosome
21. But two other studies, one of predominantly multiplex kindreds with a late
age-of-onset, the other of a cadre of kindreds with a unique Volga German ethnic 
origin, found absence of linkage at least to D21S1/S11. So far it has not been
possible to discern whether these conflicting reports reflect aetiological
heterogeneity, differences in methods of pedigree selection, effects of
confounding variables in the analysis (for example, diagnostic errors,
assortative matings), or true non-replication. To resolve this issue, we have now
examined the inheritance of five polymorphic DNA markers from the proximal long
arm of chromosome 21 in a large unselected series of pedigrees with familial
Alzheimer's disease. Our data suggest that Alzheimer's disease is not a single
entity, but rather results from genetic defects on chromosome 21 and from other
genetic or nongenetic factors.

DOI: 10.1038/347194a0 
PMID: 2395471  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Nature. 1990 Sep 13;347(6289):188-9.

Separation of pluripotent haematopoietic stem cells from spleen colony-forming
cells.

Jones RJ(1), Wagner JE, Celano P, Zicha MS, Sharkis SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Johns Hopkins Oncology Center, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, 
Maryland 21205.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Sep 13;347(6289):126-7.

Long-term reconstitution of the lymphohaematopoietic cells of a mouse after
lethal irradiation requires the transplantation of at least (5-10) x 10(3) bone
marrow cells. Several cell-separation techniques based on cell-surface
characteristics have been used in attempts to identify the pluripotent
haematopoietic stem cells (PHSC), and have allowed the long-term engraftment of
lethally irradiated mice with an enriched fraction of fewer than 200 marrow
cells. But these techniques enrich not only for PHSC but also for haematopoietic 
progenitors, especially day-12 spleen colony-forming units (CFU-S). Although
day-12 CFU-S have been postulated to be primitive multipotential haematopoietic
progenitors, with day-8 CFU-S representing later, more committed progenitors,
recent evidence suggests that neither of these CFU-S represents mouse PHSC. Here 
we report that counterflow centrifugal elutriation, which sorts cells on the
basis of size and density, can separate PHSC from these less primitive
progenitors. The fraction containing the largest cells was enriched for the
granulocyte-macrophage colony-forming units (CFU-GM), but gave only transient,
early engraftment and was therefore depleted of PHSC. The intermediate fraction
was enriched for CFU-S, but depleted of CFU-GM. Despite being devoid of CFU-GM
and CFU-S, the fraction consisting of only morphological lymphocytes gave
sustained, albeit delayed, reconstitution of all lymphohaematopoietic cells, and 
was therefore enriched for PHSC. We conclude that there are two vital classes of 
engrafting cells: committed progenitors, which provide initial, unsustained
engraftment, and PHSC, which produce delayed, but durable, engraftment. Therefore
for late haematological reconstitution, PHSC must be transplanted with a
distinguishable source of early engrafting cells, thereby allowing the lethally
irradiated host to survive initial aplasia.

DOI: 10.1038/347188a0 
PMID: 2395470  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Nature. 1990 Sep 13;347(6289):179-81.

Requirement for subplate neurons in the formation of thalamocortical connections.

Ghosh A(1), Antonini A, McConnell SK, Shatz CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Stanford University School of Medicine, California
94305.

The neurons of layer 4 in the adult cerebral cortex receive their major ascending
inputs from the thalamus. In development, however, thalamic axons arrive at the
appropriate cortical area long before their target layer 4 neurons have migrated 
into the cortical plate. The axons accumulate and wait in the zone below the
cortical plate, the subplate, for several weeks before invading the cortical
plate. The subplate is a transient zone that contains the first postmitotic
neurons of the telencephalon. These neurons mature well before other cortical
neurons, and disappear by cell death after the thalamic axons have grown into the
overlying cortical plate. The close proximity of growing thalamocortical axons
and subplate neurons suggests that they might be involved in interactions
important for normal thalamocortical development. Here we show that early in
development the deletion of subplate neurons located beneath visual cortex
prevents axons from the lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus from
recognizing and innervating visual cortex, their normal target. In the absence of
subplate neurons, lateral geniculate nucleus axons continue to grow in the white 
matter past visual cortex despite the presence of their target layer 4 neurons.
Thus the transient subplate neurons are necessary for appropriate cortical target
selection by thalamocortical axons.

DOI: 10.1038/347179a0 
PMID: 2395469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Nature. 1990 Sep 13;347(6289):203-6.

Partition of tRNA synthetases into two classes based on mutually exclusive sets
of sequence motifs.

Eriani G(1), Delarue M, Poch O, Gangloff J, Moras D.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoires de Biochimie, IBMC du CNRS, Strasbourg, France.

The aminoacyl-transfer RNA synthetases (aaRS) catalyse the attachment of an amino
acid to its cognate transfer RNA molecule in a highly specific two-step reaction.
These proteins differ widely in size and oligomeric state, and have limited
sequence homology. Out of the 18 known aaRS, only 9 referred to as class I
synthetases (GlnRS, TyrRS, MetRS, GluRS, ArgRS, ValRS, IleRS, LeuRS, TrpRS),
display two short common consensus sequences ('HIGH' and 'KMSKS') which indicate,
as observed in three crystal structures, the presence of a structural domain (the
Rossman fold) that binds ATP. We report here the sequence of Escherichia coli
ProRS, a dimer of relative molecular mass 127,402, which is homologous to both
ThrRS and SerRS. These three latter aaRS share three new sequence motifs with
AspRS, AsnRS, LysRS, HisRS and the beta subunit of PheRS. These three motifs
(motifs 1, 2 and 3), in a search through the entire data bank, proved to be
specific for this set of aaRS (referred to as class II). Class II may also
contain AlaRS and GlyRS, because these sequences have a typical motif 3.
Surprisingly, this partition of aaRS in two classes is found to be strongly
correlated on the functional level with the acylation occurring either on the 2' 
OH (class I) or 3' OH (class II) of the ribose of the last nucleotide of tRNA.

DOI: 10.1038/347203a0 
PMID: 2203971  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Nature. 1990 Sep 13;347(6289):192-4.

Microconversion between murine H-2 genes integrated into yeast.

Wheeler CJ(1), Maloney D, Fogel S, Goodenow RS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley
94720.

Patchwork homology observed between divergent members of polymorphic multigene
families is thought to reflect evolution by short-tract gene conversion
(nonreciprocal recombination), although this mechanism cannot usually be
confirmed in higher organisms. In contrast to meiotic conversions observed in
laboratory yeast strains, apparent conversions between polymorphic sequences,
such as the class I loci of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), are short
and do not seem to be associated with reciprocal recombination (crossover,
exchanges). We have now integrated two nonallelic murine class I genes into yeast
to characterize their meiotic recombination. We found no crossovers between the
MHC genes, but short-tract 'microconversions' of 1-215 base-pairs were observed
in about 6% of all meioses. Strikingly, one of these events was accompanied by a 
single base-pair mutation. These results underscore both the importance of
meiotic gene conversion and sequence heterology in determining conversion
patterns between divergent genes.

DOI: 10.1038/347192a0 
PMID: 2203970  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Nature. 1990 Sep 13;347(6289):189-91.

Family of disulphide-linked dimers containing the zeta and eta chains of the
T-cell receptor and the gamma chain of Fc receptors.

Orloff DG(1), Ra CS, Frank SJ, Klausner RD, Kinet JP.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology and Metabolism Branch, National Institute of Child Health and
Human Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

Stimulation of T cells by antigen activates many signalling pathways. The
capacity for this range of biochemical responses may reside in the complex
structure of the seven-chain T-cell antigen receptor (TCR). In addition to the
complexity shared by all TCRs, coexpression of zeta (zeta) and the distinct but
related eta (eta) chains creates structural diversity among the TCR complexes
expressed on a given cell. In most murine T cells that we have studied, about 90%
of the heptameric receptor complexes contain a zeta zeta disulphide homodimer,
whereas 10% contain a zeta eta disulphide heterodimer. Recent studies suggest
that zeta has a critical role in allowing antigen to activate the cell, whereas
eta expression has been correlated with the capacity for antigen-induced
phosphoinositide turnover. A third zeta-related protein, the gamma (gamma) chain 
of the Fc epsilon and some Fc gamma receptors, exists as a disulphide homodimer
in those complexes. The structural relatedness of zeta and gamma is emphasized by
the recent demonstration of zeta zeta in association with CD16 in TCR-negative
natural killer cells. Here we identify T cells lacking Fc receptors but
coexpressing zeta, gamma, and eta, document the formation of novel heterodimers
between zeta and gamma and between eta and gamma and show their association with 
the TCR. A greater range of homologous coupling structures than previously
thought may be one way of achieving the variety of TCR-mediated (and possibly Fc 
receptor-mediated) biochemical responses and effector functions.

DOI: 10.1038/347189a0 
PMID: 2203969  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Nature. 1990 Sep 13;347(6289):207-8.

Requirement for GTP hydrolysis in the formation of secretory vesicles.

Tooze SA(1), Weiss U, Huttner WB.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology Programme, European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Heidelberg,
FRG.

The specificity of vesicular transport in a cell is determined by the formation
of vesicles with specific contents from a donor compartment and their selective
fusion with the appropriate acceptor compartment. Several of the latter fusion
steps have been investigated in detail using cell-free systems, and work with
these systems as well as genetic evidence has revealed a role for GTP-binding
proteins in membrane fusion processes. We have reconstituted the formation of
constitutive secretory vesicles and immature secretory granules from the trans
Golgi network in a cell-free system. We show here that the budding of both types 
of post-Golgi vesicles is inhibited by non-hydrolysable analogues of GTP, which
suggests a more widespread role for GTP-binding proteins in membrane traffic than
previously assumed.

DOI: 10.1038/347207a0 
PMID: 2118598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Nature. 1990 Sep 13;347(6289):200-3.

Enhancement of chilling tolerance of a cyanobacterium by genetic manipulation of 
fatty acid desaturation.

Wada H(1), Gombos Z, Murata N.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Basic Biology, Okazaki, Japan.

The sensitivity (or tolerance) of plants to chilling determines their choice of
natural habitat and also limits the worldwide production of crops. Although the
molecular mechanism for chilling sensitivity has long been debated, no definitive
conclusion has so far been reached about its nature. A probable hypothesis,
however, is that chilling injury is initiated by phase transition of lipids of
cellular membranes, as demonstrated for cyanobacteria, which serve as a model
system for the plant cells. Because the phase transition temperature depends on
the degree of unsaturation of fatty acids of the membrane lipids, it is predicted
that the chilling tolerance of plants can be altered by genetically manipulating 
fatty-acid desaturation by introducing double bonds into fatty acids of membrane 
lipids. Here we report the cloning of a gene for the plant-type desaturation
(termed desA). The introduction of this gene from a chilling-resistant
cyanobacterium, Synechocystis PCC6803, into a chilling-sensitive cyanobacterium, 
Anacystis nidulans, increases the tolerance of the recipient to low temperature.

DOI: 10.1038/347200a0 
PMID: 2118597  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Nature. 1990 Sep 13;347(6289):182-4.

Arachidonic acid released from striatal neurons by joint stimulation of
ionotropic and metabotropic quisqualate receptors.

Dumuis A(1), Pin JP, Oomagari K, Sebben M, Bockaert J.

Author information: 
(1)Centre CNRS-INSERM de Pharmacologie-Endocrinologie, Montpellier, France.

Associative stimulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and quisqualate 
ionotropic receptors (Qi) induces long-term potentiation at particular
glutamatergic synapses. Release of arachidonic acid as a result of stimulation of
NMDA receptors has been proposed to play a part in the establishment of long-term
potentiation. But long-term plasticity events at some other glutamatergic
synapses do not involve activation of NMDA receptors. Here we report that in
mature striatal neurons in primary cultures, quisqualate can release arachidonic 
acid by associatively activating both quisqualate metabotropic receptors coupled 
to phospholipase C (Qp) and Qi receptors. Independent activation of these two
receptor types with specific agonists did not stimulate arachidonic acid release.
These results support a role for the associative activation of Qp and Qi
receptors in synaptic plasticity events, including long-term potentiation at
particular synapses.

DOI: 10.1038/347182a0 
PMID: 1975645  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Nature. 1990 Sep 13;347(6289):146-51.

Molecular cloning and characterization of a novel dopamine receptor (D3) as a
target for neuroleptics.

Sokoloff P(1), Giros B, Martres MP, Bouthenet ML, Schwartz JC.

Author information: 
(1)Unité de Neurobiologie et Pharmacologie (U. 109) de l'INSERM, Paris, France.

A dopamine receptor has been characterized which differs in its pharmacology and 
signalling system from the D1 or D2 receptor and represents both an autoreceptor 
and a postsynaptic receptor. The D3 receptor is localized to limbic areas of the 
brain, which are associated with cognitive, emotional and endocrine functions. It
seems to mediate some of the effects of antipsychotic drugs and drugs used
against Parkinson's disease, that were previously thought to interact only with
D2 receptors.

DOI: 10.1038/347146a0 
PMID: 1975644  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Nature. 1990 Sep 13;347(6289):197-200.

Activation of muscle genes without myogenesis by ectopic expression of MyoD in
frog embryo cells.

Hopwood ND(1), Gurdon JB.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research Campaign Molecular Embryology Group, Department of Zoology,
Cambridge, UK.

The sequence-specific DNA-binding protein, MyoD, can activate muscle-specific
gene expression in some cells in culture. Xenopus MyoD (XMyoD) transcription is
activated as a consequence of mesoderm induction in the early myotomes, from
which the axial musculature develops. XMyoD RNA accumulates about two hours
before muscle-specific actin transcripts first appear, and so is expressed at the
right time and in the right place to play a part in activating muscle-specific
gene expression in normal development. To test this idea, we have expressed XMyoD
ectopically in early Xenopus embryos. We find that injection of XMyoD RNA can
strongly activate muscle genes in embryo cells normally destined to form
ectoderm. Nevertheless, these cells fail to differentiate as muscle, suggesting
that additional factors are required for complete and stable myogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/347197a0 
PMID: 1697650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Nature. 1990 Sep 13;347(6289):184-7.

Primary structure and functional expression of a cyclic nucleotide-activated
channel from olfactory neurons.

Dhallan RS(1), Yau KW, Schrader KA, Reed RR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205.

Odorant signal transduction occurs in the specialized cilia of the olfactory
sensory neurons. Considerable biochemical evidence now indicates that this
process could be mediated by a G protein-coupled cascade using cyclic AMP as an
intracellular second messenger. A stimulatory G protein alpha subunit is
expressed at high levels in olfactory neurons and is specifically enriched in the
cilia, as is a novel form of adenylyl cyclase. This implies that the olfactory
transduction cascade might involve unique molecular components.
Electrophysiological studies have identified a cyclic nucleotide-activated ion
channel in olfactory cilia. These observations provide evidence for a model in
which odorants increase intracellular cAMP concentration, which in turn activates
this channel and depolarizes the sensory neuron. An analogous cascade regulating 
a cGMP-gated channel mediates visual transduction in photoreceptor cells. The
formal similarities between olfactory and visual transduction suggest that the
two systems might use homologous channels. Here we report the molecular cloning, 
functional expression and characterization of a channel that is likely to mediate
olfactory transduction.

DOI: 10.1038/347184a0 
PMID: 1697649  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Nature. 1990 Sep 13;347(6289):151-6.

Identification of the 64K autoantigen in insulin-dependent diabetes as the
GABA-synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase.

Baekkeskov S(1), Aanstoot HJ, Christgau S, Reetz A, Solimena M, Cascalho M, Folli
F, Richter-Olesen H, De Camilli P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of California San Francisco School of
Medicine 94143.

Erratum in
    Nature 1990 Oct 25;347(6295):782. Camilli, PD [corrected to De Camilli, P].

The pancreatic islet beta-cell autoantigen of relative molecular mass 64,000
(64K), which is a major target of autoantibodies associated with the development 
of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) has been identified as glutamic
acid decarboxylase, the biosynthesizing enzyme of the inhibitory neurotransmitter
GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid). Pancreatic beta cells and a subpopulation of
central nervous system neurons express high levels of this enzyme. Autoantibodies
against glutamic acid decarboxylase with a higher titre and increased epitope
recognition compared with those usually associated with IDDM are found in
stiff-man syndrome, a rare neurological disorder characterized by a high
coincidence with IDDM.

DOI: 10.1038/347151a0 
PMID: 1697648  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Nature. 1990 Sep 6;347(6288):99-102.

Crystal structure of ovalbumin as a model for the reactive centre of serpins.

Stein PE(1), Leslie AG, Finch JT, Turnell WG, McLaughlin PJ, Carrell RW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Haematology, University of Cambridge, UK.

The serpins are a widely distributed family of proteins with diverse functions;
they include the key serine protease inhibitors of human plasma as well as
noninhibitory homologues such as hormone-binding globulins, angiotensinogen and
egg-white ovalbumin. Sequence alignment based on the crystal structure. On the
cleaved form of the archetypal serpin, alpha 1-antitrypsin, indicates that the
serpins share a common highly ordered structure. On cleavage of the reactive
centre peptide bond, they characteristically undergo a remarkable conformational 
change, the newly generated C terminus moving some 70 A to the opposite pole of
the molecule. The structure of this post-cleavage form is known, but the
conformation of the intact serpins and in particular that of their reactive
centre is not. Wright et al.'s structure of plakalbumin (ovalbumin cleaved by
subtilisin) has provided evidence for the conformational change that results from
cleavage. We have now determined the structure of native ovalbumin to 1.95 A
resolution and have found that the intact peptide loop forming the analogue to
the reactive centre of the inhibitory serpins takes the unexpected form of a
protruding, isolated helix. This model of the intact structures of the serpins
suggests how they may interact with their target proteases.

DOI: 10.1038/347099a0 
PMID: 2395463  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Nature. 1990 Sep 6;347(6288):44-9.

Atomic model of the actin filament.

Holmes KC(1), Popp D, Gebhard W, Kabsch W.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Medizinische Forschung, Abteilung Biophysik,
Heidelberg, FRG.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Sep 6;347(6288):21-2.

The F-actin filament has been constructed from the atomic structure of the actin 
monomer to fit the observed X-ray fibre diagram from oriented gels of F-actin. A 
unique orientation of the monomer with respect to the actin helix has been found.
The main interactions are along the two-start helix with a contribution from a
loop extending across the filament axis provided by the molecule in the adjacent 
strand. There are also contacts along the left-handed genetic helix.

DOI: 10.1038/347044a0 
PMID: 2395461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Nature. 1990 Sep 6;347(6288):37-44.

Atomic structure of the actin:DNase I complex.

Kabsch W(1), Mannherz HG, Suck D, Pai EF, Holmes KC.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für medizinische Forschung, Abteilung Biophysik,
Heidelberg, FRG.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Sep 6;347(6288):21-2.

The atomic models of the complex between rabbit skeletal muscle actin and bovine 
pancreatic deoxyribonuclease I both in the ATP and ADP forms have been determined
by X-ray analysis at an effective resolution of 2.8 A and 3A, respectively. The
two structures are very similar. The actin molecule consists of two domains which
can be further subdivided into two subdomains. ADP or ATP is located in the cleft
between the domains with a calcium ion bound to the beta- or beta- and
gamma-phosphates, respectively. The motif of a five-stranded beta sheet
consisting of a beta meander and a right handed beta alpha beta unit appears in
each domain suggesting that gene duplication might have occurred. These sheets
have the same topology as that found in hexokinase.

DOI: 10.1038/347037a0 
PMID: 2395459  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Nature. 1990 Sep 6;347(6288):11-2.

Technology and the family farm.

Lesser W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural Economics, New York State College of Agriculture
and Life Sciences, Cornell University, Ithaca 14853.

It is one thing for innovation in agricultural practice to be implemented
thoughtlessly; quite another for it to be opposed on principle. The introduction 
of bovine growth hormone is a case in point.

DOI: 10.1038/347011a0 
PMID: 2395456  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Nature. 1990 Sep 6;347(6288):95-9.

Effect of ATP on actin filament stiffness.

Janmey PA(1), Hvidt S, Oster GF, Lamb J, Stossel TP, Hartwig JH.

Author information: 
(1)Hematology Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston.

Actin is an adenine nucleotide-binding protein and an ATPase. The bound adenine
nucleotide stabilizes the protein against denaturation and the ATPase activity,
although not required for actin polymerization, affects the kinetics of this
assembly Here we provide evidence for another effect of adenine nucleotides. We
find that actin filaments made from ATP-containing monomers, the ATPase activity 
of which hydrolyses ATP to ADP following polymerization, are stiff rods, whereas 
filaments prepared from ADP-monomers are flexible. ATP exchanges with ADP in such
filaments and stiffens them. Because both kinds of actin filaments contain mainly
ADP, we suggest the alignment of actin monomers in filaments that have bound and 
hydrolysed ATP traps them conformationally and stores elastic energy. This energy
would be available for release by actin-binding proteins that transduce force or 
sever actin filaments. These data support earlier proposals that actin is not
merely a passive cable, but has an active mechanochemical role in cell function.

DOI: 10.1038/347095a0 
PMID: 2168523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Nature. 1990 Sep 6;347(6288):87-9.

A putative serine/threonine protein kinase encoded by the segment-polarity fused 
gene of Drosophila.

Préat T(1), Thérond P, Lamour-Isnard C, Limbourg-Bouchon B, Tricoire H, Erk I,
Mariol MC, Busson D.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Génétique Moléculaire du CNRS, Université P. et M. Curie,
Gif-sur-Yvette, France.

The segmented pattern of the Drosophila embryo depends on a regulatory cascade
involving three main classes of genes. An early regulatory programme, set up
before cellularization, involves direct transcriptional regulation mediated by
gap and pair-rule genes. In a second phase occurring after cellularization,
interactions between segment-polarity genes are involved in cell communication.
Segment-polarity genes are required for pattern formation in different domains of
each metamere and act to define and maintain positional information in each
segment. The segment-polarity gene fused is maternally required for correct
patterning in the posterior part of each embryonic metamere. It is also necessary
later in development, as fused mutations lead to anomalies of adult cuticular
structures and tumorous ovaries. Here we provide molecular evidence that this
gene encodes a putative serine/threonine protein kinase, a new function for the
product of a segmentation gene. This result provides further insight into
segment-polarity interactions and their role in pattern formation.

DOI: 10.1038/347087a0 
PMID: 2168522  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Nature. 1990 Sep 6;347(6288):83-6.

Photoreceptor degeneration in inherited retinal dystrophy delayed by basic
fibroblast growth factor.

Faktorovich EG(1), Steinberg RH, Yasumura D, Matthes MT, LaVail MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of California, San Francisco 94143-0730.

Numerous inherited retinal degenerations exist in animals and humans, in which
photoreceptors inexplicably degenerate and disappear. In RCS rats with inherited 
retinal dystrophy, the mutant gene is expressed in the retinal pigment epithelial
(RPE) cell, and leads to the loss of photoreceptor cells. Photoreceptors can be
rescued from degeneration if they are juxtaposed to wild-type RPE cells in
experimental chimaeras or by the transplantation of RPE cells from normal rats.
In both cases, the rescue effect extends beyond the immediate boundaries of the
normal RPE cells, suggesting trophic action of a diffusible factor(s) from the
normal RPE cells. We considered that the fibroblast growth factors, aFGF and
bFGF, might have such a trophic role as they are found in the retina and RPE
cells; bFGF acts as a neurotrophic agent after axonal injury in several regions
of the central nervous system, and bFGF induces retinal regeneration from
developing RPE cells. Here we report that subretinal injection of bFGF results in
extensive rescue of photoreceptors in RCS rats for at least two months after the 
injection, and that intravitreal injection of bFGF results in even more
widespread rescue, across almost the entire retina. The findings demonstrate for 
the first time that bFGF can act as a survival-promoting neurotrophic factor in a
hereditary neuronal degeneration of the central nervous system.

DOI: 10.1038/347083a0 
PMID: 2168521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Nature. 1990 Sep 6;347(6288):76-80.

Cloning and expression of human and rat D1 dopamine receptors.

Zhou QY(1), Grandy DK, Thambi L, Kushner JA, Van Tol HH, Cone R, Pribnow D, Salon
J, Bunzow JR, Civelli O.

Author information: 
(1)Vollum Institute for Advanced Biomedical Research, Oregon Health Sciences
University, Portland 97201.

The importance of the dopaminergic system in brain function has been emphasized
by its association with neurological and psychiatric disorders such as
Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia. On the basis of their biochemical and
pharmacological characteristics, dopamine receptors are classified into D1 and D2
subtypes. As the most abundant dopamine receptor in the central nervous system,
D1 receptors seem to mediate some behavioural responses, modulate activity of D2 
dopamine receptors, and regulate neuron growth and differentiation. The D
dopamine receptor has been cloned by low-stringency screening. We report here the
cloning of human and rat D1 dopamine receptors by applying an approach based on
the polymerase chain reaction. The cloned human D1 dopamine receptor has been
characterized on the basis of four criteria: the deduced amino-acid sequence,
which reveals that it is a G protein-coupled receptor; the tissue distribution of
its messenger RNA, which is compatible with that of the D1 dopamine receptor; its
pharmacological profile when transfected into COS-7 cells; and its ability to
stimulate the accumulation of cyclic AMP in human 293 cells.

DOI: 10.1038/347076a0 
PMID: 2168520  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Nature. 1990 Sep 6;347(6288):72-6.

Molecular cloning and expression of the gene for a human D1 dopamine receptor.

Dearry A(1), Gingrich JA, Falardeau P, Fremeau RT Jr, Bates MD, Caron MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North
Carolina 27710.

The diverse physiological actions of dopamine are mediated by its interaction
with two basic types of G protein-coupled receptor, D1 and D2, which stimulate
and inhibit, respectively, the enzyme adenylyl cyclase. Alterations in the number
or activity of these receptors may be a contributory factor in diseases such as
Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia. Here we describe the isolation and
characterization of the gene encoding a human D1 dopamine receptor. The coding
region of this gene is intronless, unlike the gene encoding the D2 dopamine
receptor. The D1 receptor gene encodes a protein of 446 amino acids having a
predicted relative molecular mass of 49,300 and a transmembrane topology similar 
to that of other G protein-coupled receptors. Transient or stable expression of
the cloned gene in host cells established specific ligand binding and functional 
activity characteristic of a D1 dopamine receptor coupled to stimulation of
adenylyl cyclase. Northern blot analysis and in situ hybridization revealed that 
the messenger RNA for this receptor is most abundant in caudate, nucleus
accumbens and olfactory tubercle, with little or no mRNA detectable in substantia
nigra, liver, kidney, or heart. Several observations from this work in
conjunction with results from other studies are consistent with the idea that
other D1 dopamine receptor subtypes may exist.

DOI: 10.1038/347072a0 
PMID: 2144334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Nature. 1990 Sep 6;347(6288):90-2.

Megabase inversions in the human genome as physiological events.

Weichhold GM(1), Klobeck HG, Ohnheiser R, Combriato G, Zachau HG.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Physiologische Chemie, Universität München, FRG.

The genes of the immunoglobulin kappa light chains are assembled during B-cell
differentiation by somatic recombination of one of the V kappa (variable) gene
segments and the J kappa-C kappa (joining-constant) gene region. This seems to
occur by deletion of the DNa between V kappa and J kappa-C kappa if they are
arranged in germ-line DNA in the same transcriptional polarity or by inversion of
a fragment containing the V kappa gene if the polarities are opposite. We have
cloned 75 V kappa genes and pseudogenes of the human kappa locus and linked them 
in large contigs. There seem to be no more than 85 such genes, less than 50 of
these being potentially functional. Thirty-eight of the cloned genes have the
same transcriptional polarity as J kappa-C kappa and are part of the so-called J 
kappa proximal cluster; 35 genes in a distal cluster (the result of a duplication
event in evolution) have a polarity that was suggested to be opposite to the one 
of J kappa-C kappa. We now show that the V kappa genes of the proximal cluster
rearrange by a deletion mechanism whereas the others join J kappa-C kappa by
inversion of megabase-sized DNA fragments.

DOI: 10.1038/347090a0 
PMID: 2118596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Nature. 1990 Sep 6;347(6288):92-5.

Inhibition of HIV replication by pokeweed antiviral protein targeted to CD4+
cells by monoclonal antibodies.

Zarling JM(1), Moran PA, Haffar O, Sias J, Richman DD, Spina CA, Myers DE,
Kuebelbeck V, Ledbetter JA, Uckun FM.

Author information: 
(1)Oncogen, Seattle, Washington 98121.

Functional impairment and selective depletion of CD4+ T cells, the hallmark of
AIDS, are at least partly caused by human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) type 1
binding to the CD4 molecule and infecting CD4+ cells. It may, therefore, be of
therapeutic value to target an antiviral agent to CD4+ cells to prevent infection
and to inhibit HIV-1 production in patients' CD4+ cells which contain proviral
DNA. We report here that HIV-1 replication in normal primary CD4+ T cells can be 
inhibited by pokeweed antiviral protein, a plant protein of relative molecular
mass 30,000, which inhibits replication of certain plant RNA viruses, and of
herpes simplex virus, poliovirus and influenza virus. Targeting pokeweed
antiviral protein to CD4+ T cells by conjugating it to monoclonal antibodies
reactive with CD5, CD7 or CD4 expressed on CD4+ cells, increased its anti-HIV
potency up to 1,000-fold. HIV-1 replication is inhibited at picomolar
concentrations of conjugates of pokeweed antiviral protein and monoclonal
antibodies, which do not inhibit proliferation of normal CD4+ T cells or
CD4-dependent responses. These conjugates inhibit HIV-1 protein synthesis and
also strongly inhibit HIV-1 production in activated CD4+ T cells from infected
patients.

DOI: 10.1038/347092a0 
PMID: 1975641  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Nature. 1990 Sep 6;347(6288):80-3.

Human dopamine D1 receptor encoded by an intronless gene on chromosome 5.

Sunahara RK(1), Niznik HB, Weiner DM, Stormann TM, Brann MR, Kennedy JL,
Gelernter JE, Rozmahel R, Yang YL, Israel Y, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Receptors for dopamine have been classified into two functional types, D1 and D2.
They belong to the family of receptors acting through G (or guanine
nucleotide-binding) proteins. D2 receptors inhibit adenylyl cyclase, but D1
receptors stimulate adenylyl cyclase and activate cyclic AMP-dependent protein
kinases. Dopamine D1 and D2 receptors are targets of drug therapy in many
psychomotor disorders, including Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia, and may
also have a role in drug addiction and alcoholism. D1 receptors regulate neuron
growth and differentiation, influence behaviour and modify dopamine D2
receptor-mediated events. We report here the cloning of the D1 receptor gene,
which resides on an intronless region on the long arm of chromosome 5, near two
other members of the G-linked receptor family. The expressed protein, encoded by 
446 amino acids, binds drugs with affinities identical to the native human D1
receptor. The presence of a D1 receptor gene restriction fragment length
polymorphism will be helpful for future disease linkage studies.

DOI: 10.1038/347080a0 
PMID: 1975640  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Nature. 1990 Sep 6;347(6288):69-72.

Different voltage-dependent thresholds for inducing long-term depression and
long-term potentiation in slices of rat visual cortex.

Artola A(1), Bröcher S, Singer W.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institute for Brain Research, Frankfurt am Main, FRG.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Sep 6;347(6288):16.

In the hippocampus and neocortex, high-frequency (tetanic) stimulation of an
afferent pathway leads to long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission. 
In the hippocampus it has recently been shown that long-term depression (LTD) of 
excitatory transmission can also be induced by certain combinations of synaptic
activation. In most hippocampal and all neocortical pathways studied so far, the 
induction of LTP requires the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)
receptor-gated conductances. Here we report that LTD can occur in neurons of
slices of the rat visual cortex and that the same tetanic stimulation can induce 
either LTP or LTD depending on the level of depolarization of the postsynaptic
neuron. By applying intracellular current injections or pharmacological
disinhibition to modify the depolarizing response of the postsynaptic neuron to
tetanic stimulation, we show that the mechanisms of induction of LTD and LTP are 
both postsynaptic. LTD is obtained if postsynaptic depolarization exceeds a
critical level but remains below a threshold related to NMDA receptor-gated
conductances, whereas LTP is induced if this second threshold is reached.

DOI: 10.1038/347069a0 
PMID: 1975639  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Nature. 1990 Aug 30;346(6287):866-8.

Telomere reduction in human colorectal carcinoma and with ageing.

Hastie ND(1), Dempster M, Dunlop MG, Thompson AM, Green DK, Allshire RC.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Genetics Unit, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 1991 Mar 21;350(6315):197.

We have hypothesized that end-to-end chromosome fusions observed in some tumours 
could play a part in genetic instability associated with tumorigenesis and that
fusion may result from the loss of the long stretches of G-rich repeats found at 
the ends of all linear chromosomes. We therefore asked whether there is telomere 
loss or reduction in common tumours. Here we show that in most of the colorectal 
carcinomas that we analysed, there is a reduction in the length of telomere
repeat arrays relative to the normal colonic mucosa from the same patient. We
speculate on the consequences of this loss for tumorigenesis. We also show that
the telomere arrays are much smaller in colonic mucosa and blood than in fetal
tissue and sperm, and that there is a reduction in average telomere length with
age in blood and colon mucosa. We propose that the telomerase is inactive in
somatic tissues, and that telomere length is an indicator of the number of cell
divisions that it has taken to form a particular tissue and possibly to generate 
tumours.

DOI: 10.1038/346866a0 
PMID: 2392154  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Nature. 1990 Aug 30;346(6287):858-61.

Two rat homologues of Drosophila achaete-scute specifically expressed in neuronal
precursors.

Johnson JE(1), Birren SJ, Anderson DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology 216-76, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena
91125.

In vertebrates, the peripheral nervous system is embryologically derived from the
neural crest. Although the earliest neural crest cells seem to be multipotent,
the molecular mechanisms responsible for the restriction of these cells to
different sublineages are not understood. We therefore searched for developmental
control genes expressed in crest cells or their derivatives. One important class 
of regulatory molecules comprises proteins with common DNA-binding and
dimerization domains, the basic helix-loop-helix (B-HLH) region. Members of this 
family include MyoD, a mammalian myogenic determination molecule, and proteins
encoded by genes of the achaete-scute complex of Drosophila, which have an
important role in neuronal determination. From a sympathetic neuronal precursor
cell line derived from the neural crest we have now isolated two different
mammalian genes that are homologous to genes of the achaete-scute complex. The
sequence of the B-HLH-encoding region of these genes is more similar to that of
the genes of the achaete-scute complex than it is to that of other, mammalian
members of the B-HLH family. At least one of these genes is transiently expressed
in the embryonic rat nervous system, is not detected in non-neuronal tissues or
cell lines, and is induced by nerve growth factor in PC12 cells.

DOI: 10.1038/346858a0 
PMID: 2392153  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Nature. 1990 Aug 30;346(6287):855-8.

Peripheral organs control central neurogenesis in the leech.

Baptista CA(1), Gershon TR, Macagno ER.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Columbia University, New York, New York
10027.

Interactions between developing nerve centres and peripheral targets are known to
affect neuronal survival and thus regulate the adult number of neurons in many
systems. Here we provide evidence that peripheral tissues can also influence cell
numbers by stimulating the production of neurons. In the leech Hirudo
medicinalis, there is a population of several hundred neurons that is found only 
in the two segmental ganglia that innervate the genitalia and which seem to be
added gradually during post-embryonic maturation. By monitoring
5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine incorporation immunohistochemically, we have now
determined that these neurons are actually born late in embryogenesis, well after
all other central neurons are born and after efferent and afferent projections
are established between these ganglia and the periphery. Ablation of the male
genitalia early in embryogenesis, or evulsion of the nerves that connect them to 
the ganglia, prevent the birth of these neurons. However, they fail to appear
ectopically when male genitalia are transplanted to other segments, despite
innervation by local ganglia. We conclude that the generation of the
late-appearing neurons depends on a highly localized signal produced by the male 
genitalia, to which only the ganglia that normally innervate these organs have
the capacity to respond.

DOI: 10.1038/346855a0 
PMID: 2392152  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Nature. 1990 Aug 30;346(6287):853-5.

Disruption of formin-encoding transcripts in two mutant limb deformity alleles.

Mass RL(1), Zeller R, Woychik RP, Vogt TF, Leder P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

The recent identification of a gene residing at the mouse limb deformity (ld)
locus permits us to test the hypothesis that disruption of this gene is
responsible for an inherited anomaly affecting embryonic pattern formation. The
gene gives rise to alternatively processed messenger RNAs that can be translated 
as a family of related protein products, termed the formins. We have now analysed
transcripts from this gene in four independently isolated mutant alleles. In two 
of these, the ldHd allele (created by insertion of a transgene) and the ldIn2
allele (created by a translocation-inversion involving mouse chromosomes 2 and
17), a common subset of ld transcripts is abolished, but others are apparently
unaltered. The correlation of altered transcripts in two independent ld mutants
strongly supports the notion that one or more altered formins is responsible for 
the observed phenotype. That the defect is limited to the limb and kidney,
despite expression of ld mRNA in other unaffected organs, suggests that these
mutant alleles represent only partial loss of ld function.

DOI: 10.1038/346853a0 
PMID: 2392151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Nature. 1990 Aug 30;346(6287):850-3.

'Formins': proteins deduced from the alternative transcripts of the limb
deformity gene.

Woychik RP(1), Maas RL, Zeller R, Vogt TF, Leder P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

Vertebrate limb formation is an evolutionarily conserved process programmed by an
array of morphogenetic genes. As a result of transgene insertion, we previously
identified a mutation at the mouse limb deformity (ld) locus that disrupts
embryonic pattern formation, resulting in a reduction and fusion of the distal
bones and digits of all limbs as well as variable incidence of renal aplasia. We 
have now characterized the ld locus at the molecular level. It contains
evolutionarily conserved coding sequences that are transcribed in adult and
embryonic tissues as a complex group of low abundance messenger RNAs created by
alternative splicing and differential polyadenylation. The association of these
transcripts with the gene responsible for the mutant phenotype was established by
demonstrating that they are disrupted in two independently arising ld alleles. We
have now deduced the structure of several novel proteins (termed formins) from
the long open reading frames encoded by the various ld transcripts. The
observation of these different RNA transcripts in different tissues suggests that
the formins play a part in the formation of several organ systems.

DOI: 10.1038/346850a0 
PMID: 2392150  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Nature. 1990 Aug 30;346(6287):847-50.

Targeted disruption of the murine int-1 proto-oncogene resulting in severe
abnormalities in midbrain and cerebellar development.

Thomas KR(1), Capecchi MR.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Biology and Human Genetics,
Salt Lake City, Utah 84112.

The int-1 proto-oncogene was first identified as a gene activated in virally
induced mouse mammary tumours. Expression studies, however, suggest that the
normal function of this gene may be in spermatogenesis and in the development of 
the central nervous system. Genes sharing sequence similarity with int-1 have
been found throughout the animal kingdom. For example, int-1 has 54% amino-acid
identity to the Drosophila segment polarity gene wingless (wg). Both the int-1
and wg gene products seem to be secreted proteins, presumably involved in
cell-cell signalling. We have now explored the function of int-1 in the mouse by 
disrupting one of the two int-1 alleles in mouse embryo-derived stem cells using 
positive-negative selection. This cell line was used to generate a chimaeric
mouse that transmitted the mutant allele to its progeny. Mice heterozygous for
the int-1 null mutation are normal and fertile, whereas mice homozygous for the
mutation may exhibit a range of phenotypes from death before birth to survival
with severe ataxia. The latter pathology in mice and humans is often associated
with defects in the cerebellum. Examination of int-1-/int-1- mice at several
stages of embryogenesis revealed severe abnormalities in the development of the
mesencephalon and metencephalon indicating a prominent role for the int-1 protein
is in the induction of the mesencephalon and cerebellum.

DOI: 10.1038/346847a0 
PMID: 2202907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Nature. 1990 Aug 30;346(6287):841-4.

Hormonal control of Mg2+ transport in the heart.

Romani A(1), Scarpa A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Case Western Reserve University,
School of Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio 44106.

Magnesium is abundant in the mammalian body and the second most abundant cation
in cells. Because the concentration of intracellular free Mg2+ is relatively high
(0.2-1 mM), Mg2+ is unlikely to act as a second messenger, like Ca2+, by rapidly 
changing its cytosolic concentration. But changes in Mg2+ do have profound
effects on cellular metabolism, structure and bioenergetics. Key enzymes or
metabolic pathways, mitochondrial ion transport, Ca2+ channel activities in the
plasma membrane and intracellular organelles, ATP-requiring reactions, and
structural properties of cells and nucleic acids are modified by changes in Mg2+ 
concentration. Yet, although some information is available from giant cells and
bacteria, little is known about the regulation of intracellular Mg2+ in mammalian
cells. Here we report a new transport mechanism for Mg2+ across the sarcolemma of
cardiac cells in both intact hearts and dissociated myocytes. We show that
noradrenaline, through beta-adrenergic stimulation and increase of cyclic AMP,
stimulates a large efflux of Mg2+ from cardiac cells. This transport is of major 
dimensions and can move up to 20% of total cellular Mg2+ within a few minutes.

DOI: 10.1038/346841a0 
PMID: 2168019  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Nature. 1990 Aug 30;346(6287):871-4.

A bacterial virulence determinant encoded by lysogenic coliphage lambda.

Barondess JJ(1), Beckwith J.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Cell and Developmental Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston
Massachusetts 02115.

Although phage lambda represents a well studied biological systems, it has
certain features that remain obscure. Among these is the function of the roughly 
one third of the phage genome dispensable for growth in the laboratory, yet
retained despite undoubted pressure to economize. Here we report that these
'accessory' sequences contain two genes which are expressed during lysogeny, and 
encode host-cell envelope proteins. One of these is lom, the product of which is 
found in the bacterial outer membrane, and is homologous to virulence proteins of
two other enterobacterial genera. The other gene, previously unidentified, we
designate bor. Expression of bor significantly increases the survival of the
Escherichia coli host cell in animal serum. This property is a well known
bacterial virulence determinant--indeed, bor and its adjacent sequences are
highly homologous to the iss serum resistance locus of the plasmid ColV2-K94,
which confers virulence in animals. These results show that the lambda prophage
is more transcriptionally active than has long been assumed, and suggest that
lysogeny may generally have a role in bacterial survival in animal hosts, and
perhaps in pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/346871a0 
PMID: 2144037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Nature. 1990 Aug 30;346(6287):844-7.

Loss of pancreatic islet tolerance induced by beta-cell expression of
interferon-gamma.

Sarvetnick N(1), Shizuru J, Liggitt D, Martin L, McIntyre B, Gregory A, Parslow
T, Stewart T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Biology, Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco,
California 94080.

Interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) is produced during the response to infection and
participates in immunostimulatory events. We have previously reported the
induction of diabetes in transgenic mice (ins-IFN-gamma) in which the expression 
of the lymphokine IFN-gamma is directed by the insulin promoter. This diabetes is
a result of the progressive destruction of pancreatic islets that occurs with the
influx of inflammatory cells. Here we demonstrate that this islet cell loss is
mediated by lymphocytes, that engrafted histocompatible islets are destroyed, and
that lymphocytes from the transgenic mice are cytotoxic to normal islets in
vitro. These results indicate that the pancreatic expression of IFN-gamma can
result in a loss of tolerance to normal islets, consistent with its role as an
inducer of costimulatory activity, which is essential for lymphocyte activation
during an immune response.

DOI: 10.1038/346844a0 
PMID: 2118234  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Nature. 1990 Aug 30;346(6287):868-71.

A truncated human chromosome 16 associated with alpha thalassaemia is stabilized 
by addition of telomeric repeat (TTAGGG)n.

Wilkie AO(1), Lamb J, Harris PC, Finney RD, Higgs DR.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Molecular Haematology Unit, John Radcliffe Hospital, Headington, Oxford,
UK.

The instability of chromosomes with breaks induced by X-irradiation led to the
proposal that the natural ends of chromosomes are capped by a specialized
structure, the telomere. Telomeres prevent end-to-end fusions and exonucleolytic 
degradation, enable the end of the linear DNA molecule to replicate, and function
in cell division. Human telomeric DNA comprises approximately 2-20 kilobases (kb)
of the tandemly repeated sequence (TTAGGG)n oriented 5'----3' in towards the end 
of the chromosome, interspersed with variant repeats in the proximal region.
Immediately subtelomeric lie families of unrelated repeat motifs
(telomere-associated sequences) whose function, if any, is unknown. In lower
eukaryotes the formation and maintenance of telomeres may be mediated
enzymatically (by telomerase) or by recombination; in man the mechanisms are
poorly understood, although telomerase has been identified in HeLa cells. Here we
describe an alpha thalassaemia mutation associated with terminal truncation of
the short arm of chromosome 16 (within band 16p13-3) to a site 50 kb distal to
the alpha globin genes, and show that (TTAGGG)n has been added directly to the
site of the break. The mutation is stably inherited, proving that telomeric DNA
alone is sufficient to stabilize the broken chromosome end. This mechanism may
occur in any genetic disease associated with chromosome truncation.

DOI: 10.1038/346868a0 
PMID: 1975428  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Nature. 1990 Aug 30;346(6287):861-3.

Distinct sequence of negative or positive selection implied by thymocyte T-cell
receptor densities.

Ohashi PS(1), Pircher H, Bürki K, Zinkernagel RM, Hengartner H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Pathology, University Hospital, Zürich,
Switzerland.

Recent evidence suggests that positive and negative selection of thymocytes
bearing alpha beta T-cell receptors occurs during the predominant double-positive
(CD4+CD8+) stage. But the sequence or stage at which positive or negative
selection occurs during thymocyte maturation has not been well defined. Here we
use transgenic mice to show that the CD4+CD8+ stage might be further subdivided
into CD3lo (low) and CD3in (intermediate) stages. The CD3in stage could represent
T cells that have been positively selected, as this stage is dependent on the
presence of the appropriate major histocompatibility complex restriction element.
In addition, we use two different tolerizing antigens to show that negative
selection may occur either before or after this CD3in stage.

DOI: 10.1038/346861a0 
PMID: 1975427  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Nature. 1990 Aug 30;346(6287):864-6.

Radial extension of macrophage tubular lysosomes supported by kinesin.

Hollenbeck PJ(1), Swanson JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cellular Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115.

The centrifugal elongation of membranes to form extended tubular structures is a 
widespread form of intracellular organelle movement. Tubular lysosomes and the
endoplasmic reticulum, for example, undergo such extension in association with
microtubules, and this process has been mimicked in vitro by combining purified
microtubules with isolated membranes and the mechanochemical ATPase kinesin.
This, along with evidence that kinesin is associated with the endoplasmic
reticulum, has led to the suggestion that kinesin provides the motive force for
the formation and maintenance of elongated tubulovesicular structures in cells.
We have addressed this hypothesis in murine macrophages, which have prominent
tubular lysosomes whose form depends on the integrity of microtubules. Here we
report that two antikinesin antibodies which disrupt in vitro motility will each 
cause centripetal collapse of the array of tubular lysosomes when scrape-loaded
into macrophages. To our knowledge this provides the first in vivo evidence that 
kinesin is responsible for extension of tubulovesicular structures along
microtubules.

DOI: 10.1038/346864a0 
PMID: 1697403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Nature. 1990 Aug 30;346(6287):818-22.

In vitro selection of RNA molecules that bind specific ligands.

Ellington AD(1), Szostak JW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston 02114.

Subpopulations of RNA molecules that bind specifically to a variety of organic
dyes have been isolated from a population of random sequence RNA molecules.
Roughly one in 10(10) random sequence RNA molecules folds in such a way as to
create a specific binding site for small ligands.

DOI: 10.1038/346818a0 
PMID: 1697402  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Nature. 1990 Aug 23;346(6286):773-5.

Implications of thermodynamics of protein folding for evolution of primary
sequences.

Shakhnovich EI(1), Gutin AM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Protein Research, Academy of Sciences of the USSR, Moscow Region.

Natural proteins exhibit essentially two-state thermodynamics, with one stable
fold that dominates thermodynamically over a vast number of possible folds, a
number that increases exponentially with the size of the protein. Here we address
the question of whether this feature of proteins is a rare property selected by
evolution or whether it is in fact true of a significant proportion of all
possible protein sequences. Using statistical procedures developed to study spin 
glasses, we show that, given certain assumptions, the probability that a randomly
synthesized protein chain will have a dominant fold (which is the global minimum 
of free energy) is a function of temperature, and that below a critical
temperature the probability rapidly increases as the temperature decreases. Our
results suggest that a significant proportion of all possible protein sequences
could have a thermodynamically dominant fold.

DOI: 10.1038/346773a0 
PMID: 2388698  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Nature. 1990 Aug 23;346(6286):766-9.

Reversible inactivation of K+ channels of Vicia stomatal guard cells following
the photolysis of caged inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate.

Blatt MR(1), Thiel G, Trentham DR.

Author information: 
(1)Botany School, University of Cambridge, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Aug 23;346(6286):700-1.

RECENT investigations suggest that cytoplasmic D-myo-inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate
(InsP3) functions as a second messenger in plants, as in animals, coupling
environmental and other stimuli to intracellular Ca2+ release. Cytoplasmic levels
of InsP3 and the turnover of several probable precursors in plants are affected
by physiological stimuli--including light, osmotic stress and the phytohormone
indoleacetic acid--and InsP3 activates Ca2+ channels and Ca2+ flux across plant
vacuolar and microsomal membranes. Complementary data also link changes in
cytoplasmic free Ca2+ to several physiological responses, notably in guard cells 
which regulate gas exchange through the stomatal pores of higher plant leaves.
Recent evidence indicates that guard cell K+ channels and, hence, K+ flux for
stomatal movements may be controlled by cytoplasmic Ca2+. So far, however, direct
evidence of a role for InsP3 in signalling in plants has remained elusive. Here
we report that InsP3 released from an inactive, photolabile precursor, the
P5-1-(2-nitrophenyl)ethyl ester of InsP3 (caged InsP3) reversibly inactivates K+ 
channels thought to mediate K+ uptake by guard cells from Vicia faba L. while
simultaneously activating an apparently time-independent, inward current to
depolarize the membrane potential and promote K+ efflux through a second class of
K+ channels. The data are consistent with a transient rise in cytoplasmic free
Ca2+ and demonstrate that intact guard cells are competent to use InsP3 in signal
cascades controlling ion flux through K+ channels.

DOI: 10.1038/346766a0 
PMID: 2388696  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Nature. 1990 Aug 23;346(6286):749-51.

Maintenance of B-cell memory by long-lived cells generated from proliferating
precursors.

Schittek B(1), Rajewsky K.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Genetics, University of Cologne, FRG.

A basic feature of T-cell dependent antibody responses is the generation of
memory: on a second contact with an antigen a secondary response is produced in
which somatically mutated antibodies with increased affinity are synthesized.
Memory can persist for long periods of time. This has classically been ascribed
to the generation of long-lived memory B cells. However, it is also possible that
persisting antigen, on which memory may depend, maintains a population of cycling
memory cells under continuous selection or continuously recruits newly generated 
B cells into the memory B-cell compartment. To discriminate between these
mechanisms we have now directly analysed the proliferative activity in the memory
B-cell compartment of the mouse by measuring bromodeoxyuridine incorporation in
vivo. We show that after an initial phase of extensive proliferation after
primary immunization, memory cells can persist in the organism for extended
periods of time in the absence of cell division.

DOI: 10.1038/346749a0 
PMID: 2388695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Nature. 1990 Aug 23;346(6286):754-6.

Suppression of c-ras transformation by GTPase-activating protein.

Zhang K(1), DeClue JE, Vass WC, Papageorge AG, McCormick F, Lowy DR.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cellular Oncology, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
20892.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Aug 23;346(6286):696-7.

The ras genes are required for normal cell growth and mediate transformation by
oncogenes encoding protein tyrosine kinases. Normal ras can transform cells in
vitro and in vivo, but mutationally activated ras does so much more efficiently, 
and highly transforming mutant versions of ras have been isolated from a variety 
of human and animal tumours. The ras genes encode membrane-associated, guanine
nucleotide-binding proteins that are active when GTP is bound and inactive when
GDP is bound. The slow intrinsic GTPase activity of normal mammalian Ras proteins
can be greatly accelerated by the GTPase-activating protein (GAP), which is
predominantly cytoplasmic. This activity of GAP, which can increase with cell
density in contact-inhibited cells, suggests that it functions as a negative,
upstream regulator of ras. Other studies, however, show that GAP interacts with a
region of ras-encoded protein implicated in ras effector function, which raises
the possibility that GAP might also be a downstream target of ras. Mutationally
activated ras-encoded proteins also interact with GAP, although they are
resistant to its catalytic activity. In an attempt to define the role of GAP in
ras-mediated transformation, we examined the effects on transformation of normal 
or mutant ras when cells overexpress GAP. We found that GAP suppresses
transformation of NIH 3T3 cells by normal Ha-ras (c-ras) but does not inhibit
transformation by activated Ha-ras (v-ras). These results support the hypothesis 
that GAP functions as a negative regulator of normal ras and make it unlikely
that GAP alone is the ras target.

DOI: 10.1038/346754a0 
PMID: 2201922  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Nature. 1990 Aug 23;346(6286):719-23.

Stimulation of p21ras upon T-cell activation.

Downward J(1), Graves JD, Warne PH, Rayter S, Cantrell DA.

Author information: 
(1)Signal Transduction Laboratory, Imperial Cancer Research Fund, Lincoln's Inn
Fields, London, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Aug 23;346(6286):696-7.

External signals that control the activity of proteins encoded by the ras
proto-oncogenes have not previously been characterized. It is now shown that
stimulation of the antigen receptor of T lymphocytes causes a rapid activation of
p21ras. The mechanism seems to involve a decrease in the activity of GAP, the
GTPase-activating protein, on stimulation of protein kinase C. In lymphocytes,
p21ras may therefore be an important mediator of the action of protein kinase C.

DOI: 10.1038/346719a0 
PMID: 2201921  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Nature. 1990 Aug 23;346(6286):771-3.

Bis-methionine axial ligation of haem in bacterioferritin from Pseudomonas
aeruginosa.

Cheesman MR(1), Thomson AJ, Greenwood C, Moore GR, Kadir F.

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemical Sciences, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK.

The iron-containing bacterioferritins contain the protoporphyrin IX haem group.
It has been established that Escherichia coli cytochrome b1, cytochrome b557 and 
bacterioferritin are identical. The optical spectra at room temperature of the
haem group show it to be predominantly low-spin in both the ferrous and ferric
states. The nature of the axial ligands binding the haem group to the polypeptide
has, however, remained unknown. Low-spin, bis-coordinate haem centres in proteins
typically have a role in rapid electron transfer as redox changes at the metal
ion lead to little structural rearrangement. There are only four amino acids with
side-chains that have ligand field strengths sufficient to generate the low-spin 
state of haem, namely, histidine, lysine, methionine and cysteine. Hence there
are, potentially, ten different pairs of these four ligands which could be
discovered in electron transfer haemoproteins. To date only three have been
established with certainty. They are bis-histidine, as in mammalian cytochrome
b5, methionine-histidine, typified by cytochrome c and lysine-histidine, recently
recognized by spectroscopic methods in cytochrome f. Here we report the electron 
paramagnetic resonance and near infrared magnetic circular dichroism spectra of
the oxidized state of Ps. aeruginosa bacterioferritin which enable the axial
ligands to be identified as the thioether side chains of two methionine residues,
a ligation scheme not previously reported for haem in any protein.

DOI: 10.1038/346771a0 
PMID: 2167456  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Nature. 1990 Aug 23;346(6286):756-60.

Obligatory wounding requirement for tumorigenesis in v-jun transgenic mice.

Schuh AC(1), Keating SJ, Monteclaro FS, Vogt PK, Breitman ML.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular and Developmental Biology, Samuel Lunenfeld Research
Institute, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Avian sarcoma virus 17 induces fibrosarcomas in chickens and can transform a
number of avian cell types in vitro by the action of v-jun. This gene and the
related cellular genes c-jun, jun B and jun D, encode transactivating (or
repressing) DNA-binding proteins that form homo- or heterodimeric (Jun-Jun and
Jun-Fos) complexes which recognize the AP-1 consensus sequence TGACTCA, a
response element that confers sensitivity to the tumour-promoting phorbol ester
TPA. We have produced several lines of transgenic mice carrying the v-jun
oncogene, driven by the promoter of the widely expressed H-2KK major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I antigen gene. Transgenic animals are
initially phenotypically normal, but after full-thickness wounding they show
abnormal wound repair, characterized by hyperplastic granulation tissue. Many of 
these lesions are slowly progressive because of continuing fibroblast
proliferation, and over 2-5 months some give rise to dermal fibrosarcomas. This
reproducible multistep transition through a proliferative but benign intermediate
is associated with characteristic increments in v-jun expression. Moreover,
hyperplastic wound repair and its progression are both related to transgene
dosage, suggesting that there exists a quantitative requirement or threshold for 
v-jun action. Our results indicate that v-jun is not oncogenic in transgenic mice
as a result of a 'single-hit' mechanism, but rather, in addition to an obligatory
wound, that secondary genetic or epigenetic events (possibly conscripting normal 
constituents of wound repair) are necessary for tumour development and
progression.

DOI: 10.1038/346756a0 
PMID: 2167455  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Nature. 1990 Aug 23;346(6286):724-9.

Presynaptic mechanism for long-term potentiation in the hippocampus.

Bekkers JM(1), Stevens CF.

Author information: 
(1)Salk Institute, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, La Jolla, California 92037.

Comment in
    Nature. 1991 Mar 28;350(6316):282.
    Nature. 1990 Aug 23;346(6286):698-9.

Experiments analysing the statistical properties of synaptic transmission, before
and after the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP), suggest that expression 
of LTP largely arises in a presynaptic mechanism--an increased probability of
transmitter release.

DOI: 10.1038/346724a0 
PMID: 2167454  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Nature. 1990 Aug 23;346(6286):760-3.

Human cyclin A is adenovirus E1A-associated protein p60 and behaves differently
from cyclin B.

Pines J(1), Hunter T.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Biology and Virology Laboratory, Salk Institute for Biological
Studies, San Diego, California 92138.

CYCLINS are proteins synthesized during each cell cycle and abruptly destroyed in
each mitosis. Cyclins have been implicated in the induction of mitosis and are
associated with the serine-threonine protein kinase p34cdc2 as components of
mitosis promoting factor (MPF). On the basis of conserved sequence motifs cyclins
can be divided into A or B types. We recently cloned a human cyclin B and showed 
that cyclin B expression is regulated transcriptionally and post-translationally 
during the cell cycle, and that cyclin B associates with p34cdc2. Here we report 
that human cyclin A messenger RNA and protein levels also vary during the cell
cycle, and increase and decrease in advance of cyclin B levels. Cyclin A is
associated with a protein of relative molecular mass 33,000 that is related to,
but distinct from, p34cdc2, and this complex has histone H1 kinase activity in
vitro. Cyclin A is identical to p60, a protein that associates with p34cdc2 in
interphase cells and with adenovirus E1A in transformed cells.

DOI: 10.1038/346760a0 
PMID: 2143810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Nature. 1990 Aug 23;346(6286):763-6.

Sequential activation of HOX2 homeobox genes by retinoic acid in human embryonal 
carcinoma cells.

Simeone A(1), Acampora D, Arcioni L, Andrews PW, Boncinelli E, Mavilio F.

Author information: 
(1)International Institute of Genetics and Biophysics, Napoli, Italy.

RETINOIC acid had been implicated as a natural morphogen in chicken and frog
embryogenesis, and is presumed to act through the gene regulatory activity of a
family of nuclear receptors. Homeobox genes, which specify positional information
in Drosophila and possibly in vertebrate embryogenesis, are among the candidate
responsive genes. We previously reported that retinoic acid specifically induces 
human homeobox gene (HOX) expression in the embryonal carcinoma cell line NT2/D1.
We now show that the nine genes of the HOX2 cluster are differentially activated 
in NT2/D1 cells exposed to retinoic acid concentrations ranging from 10(-8) to
10(-5) M. Genes located in the 3' half of the cluster are induced at peak levels 
by 10(-8) M retinoic acid, whereas a concentration of 10(-6) to 10(-5) M is
required to fully activate 5' genes. At both high and low retinoic acid
concentrations, HOX2 genes are sequentially activated in embryonal carcinoma
cells in the 3' to 5' direction.

DOI: 10.1038/346763a0 
PMID: 1975088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Nature. 1990 Aug 23;346(6286):751-4.

Beta 2-microglobulin restriction of antigen presentation.

Pérarnau B(1), Siegrist CA, Gillet A, Vincent C, Kimura S, Lemonnier FA.

Author information: 
(1)Centre d'Immunologie INSERM-CNRS de Marseille-Luminy, France.

Antigens are generally thought to be recognized by cytotoxic T lymphocytes as
peptides in the context of class I major histocompatibility proteins complex,
which are heterodimers of heavy chains noncovalently associated with beta
2-microglobulin (beta 2m). The highly polymorphic nature of the heavy chains and 
their resulting ability to present different sets of peptides has presumably
evolved to allow potent immune responses against most pathogens. By contrast, the
polymorphism of beta 2m is limited; seven alleles are known in the mouse and only
one has been identified in humans. beta 2-Microglobulin was consequently thought 
to have only structural functions: namely, to ensure correct folding of class I
molecules and their transport to the cell surface. Although beta 2m is not
implicated directly in the formation of the peptide binding site, we report here 
that it participates in the selection of MHC class I molecule-associated
peptides.

DOI: 10.1038/346751a0 
PMID: 1697039  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Nature. 1990 Aug 16;346(6285):680-2.

Solution structure of an unusually stable RNA hairpin, 5'GGAC(UUCG)GUCC.

Cheong C(1), Varani G, Tinoco I Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley 94720.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Aug 16;346(6285):613-4.

Hairpin loops are important structural elements of RNA, helping to define the
three-dimensional structure of large RNAs and providing potential nucleation
sites for RNA folding and interaction with other nucleic acids and proteins.
Little, however, is known about the conformation of RNA hairpins, most of what we
know coming from transfer RNA crystal structures and from studies of DNA
hairpins. We report here the determination of the structure of a very stable and 
common RNA hairpin, 5'GGAC(UUCG)GUCC (loop nucleotides in parenthesis), by NMR
spectroscopy. The sequence C(UUCG)G occurs very often in RNA and may be a
nucleation site for RNA folding and a protein-binding site. A high-resolution
structure for the hairpin was derived from interproton distances and scalar
coupling constants determined by NMR. The loop is stabilized by a G.U base pair, 
with guanine in the syn conformation, a cytosine-phosphate contact and extensive 
base stacking. These findings and other structural features of the loop can
explain the unusual stability of the hairpin and suggest why reverse
transcriptase cannot read through the loop, although it can transcribe through
other kinds of RNA secondary structure.

DOI: 10.1038/346680a0 
PMID: 1696688  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Nature. 1990 Aug 16;346(6285):663-5.

Transcriptional activation domain of the muscle-specific gene-regulatory protein 
myf5.

Braun T(1), Winter B, Bober E, Arnold HH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Toxicology, Medical School, University of Hamburg, FRG.

The human muscle determination factor myf5, like MyoD and other members of the
family of skeletal muscle-specific regulatory proteins, contains a highly
conserved putative helix-loop-helix domain. In MyoD this motif is required for
the initiation of myogenesis in C3H mouse 10T1/2 fibroblasts and other non-muscle
cells as well as for transcriptional activation of muscle genes. High affinity
DNA binding of MyoD to regulatory DNA elements in muscle genes requires the
formation of heterodimers with ubiquitous helix-loop-helix proteins such as E12
or E47. To investigate the potential of myf5 as a transcription factor, we have
fused the GAL4 DNA-binding domain to various parts of the myf5 protein and
analysed the transactivation of a GAL4 reporter plasmid. Here we report that myf5
contains an intrinsic transcriptional activation domain which is distinct from
the helix-loop-helix motif. The predominant transactivating effect is associated 
with the C-terminal half of the myf5 molecule. High-affinity sequence-specific
DNA binding of myf5 also requires hetero-oligomeric association with the
enhancer-binding protein E12 to confer muscle-specific transactivation.

DOI: 10.1038/346663a0 
PMID: 2385294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Nature. 1990 Aug 16;346(6285):660-3.

Localized requirement for torso-like expression in follicle cells for development
of terminal anlagen of the Drosophila embryo.

Stevens LM(1), Frohnhöfer HG, Klingler M, Nüsslein-Volhard C.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Entwicklungsbiologie, Tübingen, FRG.

The torso (tor) gene, one of six identified maternal genes essential for the
development of the anterior and posterior terminal structures in the Drosophila
embryo, is likely to function as a transmembrane receptor tyrosine kinase.
Although tor protein is uniformly distributed in the membrane of the egg cell and
syncytial embryo, genetic and molecular data suggest that tor is locally
activated at the ends of the embryo by a ligand present in the perivitelline
space. Local activation of tor could be achieved if the ligand were expressed by 
a subpopulation of the follicle cells that surround the developing oocyte. Here
we describe torso-like (tsl), the sixth member of the terminal gene class, and
show that it is unique among these genes in that its expression is required in
the somatic follicle cells rather than in the germ line. Moreover, mosaic
analysis demonstrates that tsl expression is necessary only in subpopulations of 
follicle cells located at the poles of the oocyte. Thus, the spatially regulated 
expression of tsl in the follicle cell layer may generate a localized signal that
is transduced by tor, ultimately resulting in the formation of the terminal
structures of the embryo.

DOI: 10.1038/346660a0 
PMID: 2385293  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Nature. 1990 Aug 16;346(6285):658-60.

Farnesylated gamma-subunit of photoreceptor G protein indispensable for
GTP-binding.

Fukada Y(1), Takao T, Ohguro H, Yoshizawa T, Akino T, Shimonishi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biophysics, Faculty of Science, Kyoto University, Japan.

Transducin, composed of subunits T alpha, T beta and T gamma, is a member of a
heterotrimeric G-protein family, and transduces the light signal in visual cells.
We have recently found that bovine T beta gamma can be separated into two
components. T beta gamma-1 and T beta gamma-2, each of which has its own
gamma-subunit, T gamma-1 and T gamma-2, respectively. T beta gamma-2 enhances the
binding of GTP to T alpha in the presence of metarhodopsin II by about 30-fold
compared with T beta gamma-1. Here we show that a farnesyl moiety is attached to 
a sulphur atom of the C-terminal cysteine of T gamma-2 (active form), a part of
which is additionally methyl-esterified at the alpha-carboxyl group. In T gamma-1
(inactive form), however, such modifications are missing. Thus, the farnesyl
moiety attached to the gamma-subunit is indispensable for the GTP-binding
activity of transducin. This suggests that a similar modification may occur in
the gamma-subunits of other heterotrimeric G proteins involved in biological
signal transduction processes.

DOI: 10.1038/346658a0 
PMID: 2385292  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Nature. 1990 Aug 16;346(6285):677-80.

Abrupt changes in flagellar rotation observed by laser dark-field microscopy.

Kudo S(1), Magariyama Y, Aizawa S.

Author information: 
(1)ERATO, Molecular Dynamic Assembly Project, Tsukuba, Japan.

Bacteria such as Escherichia coli and Salmonella typhimurium swim by rotating
their flagella, each of which consists of an external helical filament and a
rotary motor embedded in the cell surface. The function of the flagellar motor
has been examined mainly by tethering the flagellar filament to a glass slide and
observing the resultant rotation of the cell body. But under these conditions the
motor operates at a very low speed (about 10 r.p.s.) owing to the unnaturally
high load conditions inherent in this technique. Lowe et al. analysed the
frequency of light scattered from swimming cells to estimate the average rotation
speed of flagellar bundles of E. coli as about 270 r.p.s. To analyse motor
function in more detail, however, measurement of high-speed rotation of a single 
flagellum (at low load) with a temporal resolution better than 1 ms is needed. We
have now developed a new method--laser dark-field microscopy--which fulfils these
requirements. We find that although the average rotation speed of S. typhimurium 
flagella is rather stable, there are occasional abrupt slowdowns, pauses and
reversals (accomplished within 1 ms). These changes were frequently observed in
mutants defective in one of the motor components (called the switch complex),
suggesting that this component is important not only in switching rotational
direction but also in torque generation or regulation.

DOI: 10.1038/346677a0 
PMID: 2200968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Nature. 1990 Aug 16;346(6285):655-7.

Cycling of cell-surface MHC glycoproteins through primaquine-sensitive
intracellular compartments.

Reid PA(1), Watts C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Dundee, UK.

Class II major histocompatibility complex (MHC) glycoproteins associate with
peptides derived from material endocytosed by antigen-presenting cells and
processed along the endocytotic pathway. No consensus exists as to what extent
class II molecules themselves are endocytosed and it is not known whether
endocytosed MHC class II molecules can be recycled again to the cell surface--an 
itinerary which might allow a single cell-surface MHC molecule to associate with 
different peptides during its lifetime. We now show by using new cleavable
labelling reagents that class II and class I MHC on B lymphoblastoid cells are
continually endocytosed and recycled to the cell surface. The intracellular pool 
size is normally kept small by efficient recycling, but in the presence of
primaquine the rate of recycling is slowed, thereby increasing the size of this
pool substantially. On removal of the amine, the intracellular population
recycles rapidly to restore the original distribution. These results reveal a
cycle that might explain the rapid binding and turnover of some peptide/class II 
MHC complexes and the exchange of pre-existing for new peptides observed in
living cells.

DOI: 10.1038/346655a0 
PMID: 2166918  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Nature. 1990 Aug 16;346(6285):651-5.

Novel mechanism of voltage-dependent gating in L-type calcium channels.

Pietrobon D(1), Hess P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Physiology, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115.

Activation of voltage-dependent calcium channels by membrane depolarization
triggers a variety of key cellular responses, such as contraction in heart and
smooth muscle and exocytotic secretion in endocrine and nerve cells. Modulation
of calcium channel gating is believed to be the mechanism by which several
neurotransmitters, hormones and therapeutic agents mediate their effects on cell 
function. Here we describe a novel type of voltage-dependent equilibrium between 
different gating patterns of dihydropyridine-sensitive (L-type) cardiac Ca2+
channels. Strong depolarizations drive the channel from its normal gating pattern
into a mode of gating characterized by long openings and high open probability.
The rate constants for conversions between gating modes, estimated from single
channel recordings, are much slower than normal channel opening and closing
rates, but the equilibrium between modes is almost as steeply voltage-dependent
as channel activation and deactivation at more negative potentials. This new
mechanism of voltage-dependent gating can explain previous reports of
activity-dependent Ca2+ channel potentiation in cardiac and other cells and forms
a potent mechanism by which Ca2+ uptake into cells could be regulated.

DOI: 10.1038/346651a0 
PMID: 2166917  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Nature. 1990 Aug 16;346(6285):648-51.

Cerebellar GABAA receptor selective for a behavioural alcohol antagonist.

Lüddens H(1), Pritchett DB, Köhler M, Killisch I, Keinänen K, Monyer H, Sprengel 
R, Seeburg PH.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Molecular Biology, University of Heidelberg, FRG.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Dec 13;348(6302):589.

Benzodiazepines are widely prescribed anxiolytics and anticonvulsants which bind 
with high affinity to sites on the GABAA receptor/Cl- channel complex and
potentiate the effect of the neurotransmitter GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid). The
heterogeneity of benzodiazepine recognition sites in the central nervous system
was revealed by studies showing different classes of GABAA receptor subunits
(classes alpha, beta and gamma) and variant subunits in these classes,
particularly in the alpha-class. Expression of recombinant subunits produces
functional receptors; when certain alpha-variants are coexpressed with beta- and 
gamma-subunits the resulting receptors have pharmacological properties
characteristic of GABAA-benzodiazepine type I or type II receptors. The
alpha-variants are differentially expressed in the central nervous system and can
be photoaffinity-labelled with benzodiazepines. Here we report a novel
alpha-subunit (alpha 6) of cerebellar granule cells. We show that recombinant
receptors composed of alpha 6, beta 2 and gamma 2 subunits bind with high
affinity to the GABA agonist [3H]muscimol and the benzodiazepine [3H]Ro15-4513
but not the other benzodiazepines or beta-carboniles. The same distinctive
pharmacology is observed with GABAA receptors from rat cerebellum
immunoprecipitated by an antiserum specific for the alpha 6 subunit. We conclude 
that this alpha-subunit is part of a cerebellar receptor subtype, selective for
Ro15-4513, an antagonist of alcohol-induced motor incoordination and ataxia.

DOI: 10.1038/346648a0 
PMID: 2166916  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Nature. 1990 Aug 16;346(6285):623-8.

Three-dimensional structure of the ATPase fragment of a 70K heat-shock cognate
protein.

Flaherty KM(1), DeLuca-Flaherty C, McKay DB.

Author information: 
(1)Beckman Laboratories for Structural Biology, Department of Cell Biology,
Stanford University School of Medicine, California 94305-5400.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Aug 16;346(6285):607-8.

The three-dimensional structure of the amino-terminal 44K ATPase fragment of the 
70K bovine heat-shock cognate protein has been solved to a resolution of 2.2 A.
The ATPase fragment has two structural lobes with a deep cleft between them; ATP 
binds at the base of the cleft. Surprisingly, the nucleotide-binding 'core' of
the ATPase fragment has a tertiary structure similar to that of hexokinase,
although the remainder of the structures of the two proteins are completely
dissimilar, suggesting that both the phosphotransferase mechanism and the
substrate-induced conformational change intrinsic to the hexokinases may be used 
by the 70K heat shock-related proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/346623a0 
PMID: 2143562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Nature. 1990 Aug 16;346(6285):668-71.

Negative regulation of human c-fos expression by the retinoblastoma gene product.

Robbins PD(1), Horowitz JM, Mulligan RC.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Nine, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02142.

Erratum in
    Nature 1991 May 30;351(6325):419.

Inactivation of the retinoblastoma susceptibility gene (RB-1) has been associated
with the aetiology of many types of human cancers, leading to the classification 
of RB-1 as an anti-oncogene or tumour suppressor gene. Given that the protein
product of RB-1 (Rb) has a nuclear localization and DNA-binding activity in
vitro, it is possible that Rb regulates transcription of certain genes. The
promoter of the c-fos gene might be a target for regulation by Rb, because both
v-fos and RB-1 are associated with the induction of osteosarcomas in mice and
humans, respectively. Also, fos expression is thought to be required for
quiescent cells to enter the cell cycle, making the fos promoter an attractive
target for suppressors of cell growth. Here we report that Rb can repress c-fos
expression and AP-1 transcriptional activity in both serum-induced and cycling
3T3 cells. We have mapped a cis-acting element in the human c-fos promoter that
can confer repression by Rb to a heterologous promoter. We have the termed the
cis-acting sequence regulated by Rb the retinoblastoma control element.

DOI: 10.1038/346668a0 
PMID: 2117257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Nature. 1990 Aug 16;346(6285):674-7.

Isolation and sequence of an FK506-binding protein from N. crassa which catalyses
protein folding.

Tropschug M(1), Wachter E, Mayer S, Schönbrunner ER, Schmid FX.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Physiologische Chemie der Universität München, FRG.

Slow protein-folding reactions are accelerated by a prolyl cis/trans isomerase
isolated from porcine kidney which is identical to cyclophilin, a protein that is
probably the cellular receptor for the immunosuppressant cyclosporin A. Catalysis
probably involves the isomerization of prolyl peptide bonds in the folding
protein chains. Cyclosporin A inhibits folding catalysis by cyclophilin. Here we 
report the isolation, cloning, sequencing and expression of another protein with 
prolyl isomerase activity from Neurospora crassa which is unrelated to
cyclophilin and which also catalyses slow steps in protein folding. This protein 
does, however, show sequence similarity to a human protein that binds to another,
recently discovered immunosuppressive drug, FK506. Moreover, it shares 39%
identity with the carboxy-terminal 114 residues of a cell-surface protein from
the bacterium Legionella pneumophila, the causative agent of Legionnaires'
disease. Catalysis of folding by the FK506-binding protein from N. crassa is
inhibited by FK506, but not by cyclosporin A. Thus, at least two different
classes of conformationally active enzymes (conformases) exist that catalyse slow
steps in protein folding. Both occur in a wide variety of cells and are inhibited
by immunosuppressive drugs.

DOI: 10.1038/346674a0 
PMID: 1696687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Nature. 1990 Aug 16;346(6285):671-4.

Molecular cloning and overexpression of the human FK506-binding protein FKBP.

Standaert RF(1), Galat A, Verdine GL, Schreiber SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138.

The potent immunosuppressive agent FK506 is highly effective in preventing organ 
transplant rejection in humans. Like cyclosporin A, FK506 inhibits the
transcription of early T-cell activation genes, apparently by modulating the
activity of transcriptional regulators such as nuclear factor of activated T
cells. A remarkable finding is that the predominant binding proteins
(immunophilins) for cyclosporin A and FK506, cyclophilin and FKBP respectively,
are peptidyl-prolyl-cis-trans-isomerases that are potently and selectively
inhibited by their respective ligands. Here we report the complementary DNA and
derived amino-acid sequences of human FKBP from Jurkat cells and also the
efficient overexpression in Escherichia coli of fully active, recombinant human
FKBP. The human FKBP cDNA sequence shows significant similarity to an open
reading frame in the Neisseria meningitidis genome.

DOI: 10.1038/346671a0 
PMID: 1696686  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Nature. 1990 Aug 16;346(6285):665-8.

Cell cycle-dependent regulation of histone precursor mRNA processing by
modulation of U7 snRNA accessibility.

Hoffmann I(1), Birnstiel ML.

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute of Molecular Pathology, Vienna, Austria.

Histone gene expression is regulated both during and after transcription, with
the turnover of histone messenger RNA and the regulation of its 3' processing
being the principal factors that determine the size of the histone mRNA pool
during the cell cycle. The mature ends of the replication-dependent histone mRNAs
are generated during 3' processing by endonucleolytic cleavage of a large primary
transcript. This reaction depends on a highly conserved stem-loop structure also 
included in the mature RNA, and a purine-rich sequence lying downstream within
the spacer transcript. Three factors involved in this reaction which act in trans
have been identified: the U7 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particle (snRNP),
the heat-labile factor, and the hairpin-binding factor. Here we show how U7 snRNP
participates in the regulation of 3' processing: the 5' sequences of the U7 snRNA
that hybridize with the downstream spacer motif during 3' processing are occluded
in the G0 stage of the cell cycle but are exposed and free to interact with
histone pre-mRNA during S phase, when histone mRNA synthesis is at its peak.

DOI: 10.1038/346665a0 
PMID: 1696685  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Nature. 1990 Aug 16;346(6285):629-33.

Viral escape by selection of cytotoxic T cell-resistant virus variants in vivo.

Pircher H(1), Moskophidis D, Rohrer U, Bürki K, Hengartner H, Zinkernagel RM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pathology, University Hospital, Zurich, Switzerland.

Viruses persist in an immune population, as in the case of influenza, or in an
individual, as postulated for human immunodeficiency virus, when they are able to
escape existent neutralizing antibody responses by changing their antigens. It is
now shown that viruses can in principle escape the immunosurveillance of
virus-specific cytotoxic T cells by mutations that alter the relevant T-cell
epitope.

DOI: 10.1038/346629a0 
PMID: 1696684  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Nature. 1990 Aug 9;346(6284):586-9.

Structure of Arc repressor in solution: evidence for a family of beta-sheet
DNA-binding proteins.

Breg JN(1), van Opheusden JH, Burgering MJ, Boelens R, Kaptein R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Utrecht, The Netherlands.

The Arc repressor, which is involved in the switch between lysis and lysogeny of 
Salmonella bacteriophage P22, does not belong to any of the known classes of
DNA-binding proteins. Mutagenesis studies show that the DNA-binding region is
located in the 15 N-terminal amino-acid residues. We have now determined the
three-dimensional structure of the Arc dimer from an extensive set of
interproton-distance data obtained from 1H NMR spectroscopy. A priori, intra- and
inter-monomer nuclear Overhauser effects (NOEs) cannot be distinguished for a
symmetric dimer. But by using the homology with the Escherichia coli Met
repressor we could interpret the NOEs unambiguously in an iterative structure
refinement procedure. The final structure satisfies a large set of NOE
constraints (1,352 for the dimer). It shows a strongly intertwined dimer, in
which residues 8-14 of different monomers form an antiparallel beta-sheet. A
model for the Arc repressor-operator complex can account for all available
biochemical and genetic data. In this model two Arc dimers bind with their
beta-sheet regions in successive major grooves on one side of the DNA helix,
similar to the Met repressor interaction. Thus, Arc and Met repressors are
members of the same family of proteins, which contain an antiparallel beta-sheet 
as the DNA-binding motif.

DOI: 10.1038/346586a0 
PMID: 2377232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Nature. 1990 Aug 9;346(6284):577-80.

A morphogenetic gradient of hunchback protein organizes the expression of the gap
genes Krüppel and knirps in the early Drosophila embryo.

Hülskamp M(1), Pfeifle C, Tautz D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Genetik and Mikrobiologie, Universität München, FRG.

Segmentation of the Drosophila embryo depends on a hierarchy of interactions
among the maternal and zygotic genes in the early embryo. The anterior region is 
organized maternally by the bicoid (bcd) gene product, which forms a
concentration gradient in the anterior half of the embryo. The gap genes are also
involved in establishing the body plan, with hunchback (hb) being expressed both 
maternally and zygotically. Zygotic expression of hb is directly activated by the
bcd gene product, leading to a subdivision of the embryo into an anterior half
expressing zygotically provided hb protein and a posterior half that does not. A 
similar effect on maternally provided hb protein is caused by the gene nanos,
which represses the translation of maternally provided transcripts in the
posterior half. This regulation of hb protein is a prerequisite for abdomen
development, because the presence of hb protein in the posterior half represses
posterior segmentation. This repression mechanism suggests that posterior
segmentation might not directly depend on maternal positional cues, but be solely
organized at the zygotic level. Here we report further evidence to support this
hypothesis and show that the hb protein itself is crucially involved in
organizing abdominal segmentation. Differential concentrations of hb protein
determine the anterior and posterior borders of expression of the gap gene
Krüppel (Kr) and the anterior border of the gap gene knirps (kni), thus defining 
three positional values. These regulatory pathways are controlled in a redundant 
way, in part by bcd and in part by the maternal hb gene product.

DOI: 10.1038/346577a0 
PMID: 2377231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Nature. 1990 Aug 9;346(6284):572-4.

Specific recognition of staphylococcal enterotoxin A by human T cells bearing
receptors with the V gamma 9 region.

Rust CJ(1), Verreck F, Vietor H, Koning F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunohematology and Bloodbank, University Hospital, Leiden, The
Netherlands.

T cells bearing the alpha beta receptor can specifically react with target cells 
coated with staphylococcal enterotoxin and expressing major histocompatibility
complex class II molecules; these responses depend on which variable region (V)
of the receptor's beta-subunit is used. We have now examined whether a similar
situation exists for human T cells bearing the gamma delta receptor. We found
that reactivity to staphylococcal enterotoxin A is strictly dependent on the
presence of the V gamma 9 variable region in the gamma delta T-cell receptor
(TCR). These cytotoxic responses required the expression of HLA class II
molecules by the target cell and could be inhibited by anti-gamma delta TCR and
by anti-HLA-class-II monoclonal antibodies. In contrast to alpha beta TCR+ cell
clones, no proliferative response of V gamma 9+ T-cell clones towards stimulator 
cells coated with enterotoxin A was observed in vitro. These results indicate
that the gamma delta TCR repertoire might be influenced by enterotoxin A produced
during staphylococcal infections in vivo. This could provide a molecular basis
for the observation that V gamma 9+ T cells form the large majority of peripheral
gamma delta TCR+ cells but only a small proportion of thymic gamma delta TCR+
cells.

DOI: 10.1038/346572a0 
PMID: 2377230  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Nature. 1990 Aug 9;346(6284):558-60.

Microorganisms associated with chromosome destruction and reproductive isolation 
between two insect species.

Breeuwer JA(1), Werren JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Rochester, New York 14627.

Microorganisms have been implicated in causing cytoplasmic incompatibility in a
variety of insect species, including mosquitoes, fruitflies, beetles and wasps.
The effect is typically unidirectional: incompatible crosses produce no progeny
or sterile males, whereas the reciprocal crosses produce normal progeny. The
parasitic wasp Nasonia vitripennis is one of the few species in which the
cytogenetic mechanism of incompatibility is known. In this species the paternal
chromosome set forms a tangled mass in a fertilized egg and is eventually lost.
Here we report that cytoplasmic microorganisms are associated with complete
bidirectional incompatibility between N. vitripennis and a closely related
sympatric species, N. giraulti. Microorganisms can be seen in the eggs of both
species. Hybrid offspring are normally not produced in crosses between the two
species, but do occur after elimination of the microorganisms by antibiotic
treatment. A cytogenetic and genetic study shows that bidirectional interspecific
incompatibility is due to improper condensation of the paternal chromosomes.
Microorganism-mediated reproductive isolation is of interest because it could
provide a rapid mode of speciation. The mechanism of incompatibility in Nasonia
is also of interest as a potential tool for studying chromosome imprinting and
chromosome condensation.

DOI: 10.1038/346558a0 
PMID: 2377229  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Nature. 1990 Aug 9;346(6284):580-3.

Stepwise phosphorylation of myo-inositol leading to myo-inositol hexakisphosphate
in Dictyostelium.

Stephens LR(1), Irvine RF.

Author information: 
(1)Biochemistry Department, AFRC Institute of Animal Physiology & Genetics
Research, Cambridge Research Station, UK.

Although myo-inositol hexakisphosphate (InsP6; phytate) is the most abundant
inositol phosphate in nature and probably has a wide variety of functions,
neither the route of its synthesis from myo-inositol nor its metabolic
relationships with other inositol-containing compounds (such as the second
messenger inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, Ins(1,4,5)P3) are known. Here we report
that the pathway by which InsP6 is synthesized in the cellular slime mould
Dictyostelium, and in cell-free preparations derived from them, is catalysed by a
series of soluble ATP-dependent kinases independently of the metabolism of both
phosphatidylinositol and Ins(1,4,5)P3. The intermediates between myo-inositol and
InsP6 are Ins3P, Ins(3,6)P2, Ins(3,4,6)P3, Ins(1,3,4,6)P4 and Ins(1,3,4,5,6)P5.
The 3- and 5-phosphates of InsP6 take part in futile cycles in which
Ins(1,2,4,5,6)P5 and Ins(1,2,3,4,6)P5 are rapidly formed by dephosphorylation of 
InsP6, only to be rephosphorylated to yield their precursor.

DOI: 10.1038/346580a0 
PMID: 2198472  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Nature. 1990 Aug 9;346(6284):569-72.

Intramembrane charge movement restored in dysgenic skeletal muscle by injection
of dihydropyridine receptor cDNAs.

Adams BA(1), Tanabe T, Mikami A, Numa S, Beam KG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical
Sciences, Colorado State University, Fort Collins 80523.

The skeletal muscle dihydropyridine (DHP) receptor is essential in
excitation-contraction (EC) coupling. The receptor is postulated to be the
voltage sensor giving rise to the intramembrane current, termed charge movement. 
We have now tested this hypothesis using myotubes from mice with the muscular
dysgenesis mutation, which alters the skeletal muscle DHP receptor gene and
prevents its expression. Our results indicate that charge movement is deficient
in dysgenic myotubes but is fully restored following injection of an expression
plasmid carrying the rabbit skeletal muscle DHP receptor complementary DNA,
strongly supporting the hypothesis that the DHP receptor is the voltage sensor
for EC coupling in skeletal muscle. Additionally, our data obtained for normal
and chimaeric DHP receptor constructs demonstrate that DHP receptors with widely 
differing abilities to function as calcium channels and to mediate EC coupling
produce very similar charge movements.

DOI: 10.1038/346569a0 
PMID: 2165571  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Nature. 1990 Aug 9;346(6284):567-9.

Regions of the skeletal muscle dihydropyridine receptor critical for
excitation-contraction coupling.

Tanabe T(1), Beam KG, Adams BA, Niidome T, Numa S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Chemistry, Kyoto University Faculty of Medicine, Japan.

It is thought that in skeletal muscle excitation-contraction (EC) coupling, the
release of Ca2+ from the sarcoplasmic reticulum is controlled by the
dihydropyridine (DHP) receptor in the transverse tubular membrane, where it
serves as the voltage sensor. We have shown previously that injection of an
expression plasmid carrying the skeletal muscle DHP receptor complementary DNA
restores EC coupling and L-type calcium current that are missing in skeletal
muscle myotubes from mutant mice with muscular dysgenesis. This restored coupling
resembles normal skeletal muscle EC coupling, which does not require entry of
extracellular Ca2+. By contrast, injection into dysgenic myotubes of an
expression plasmid carrying the cardiac DHP receptor cDNA produces L-type calcium
current and cardiac-type EC coupling, which does require entry of extracellular
Ca2+. To identify the regions responsible for this important functional
difference between the two structurally similar DHP receptors, we have expressed 
various chimaeric DHP receptor cDNAs in dysgenic myotubes. The results obtained
indicate that the putative cytoplasmic region between repeats II and III of the
skeletal muscle DHP receptor is an important determinant of skeletal-type EC
coupling.

DOI: 10.1038/346567a0 
PMID: 2165570  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Nature. 1990 Aug 9;346(6284):561-4.

Structure of a cannabinoid receptor and functional expression of the cloned cDNA.

Matsuda LA(1), Lolait SJ, Brownstein MJ, Young AC, Bonner TI.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cell Biology, National Institutes of Mental Health, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Aug 9;346(6284):508.

Marijuana and many of its constituent cannabinoids influence the central nervous 
system (CNS) in a complex and dose-dependent manner. Although CNS depression and 
analgesia are well documented effects of the cannabinoids, the mechanisms
responsible for these and other cannabinoid-induced effects are not so far known.
The hydrophobic nature of these substances has suggested that cannabinoids
resemble anaesthetic agents in their action, that is, they nonspecifically
disrupt cellular membranes. Recent evidence, however, has supported a mechanism
involving a G protein-coupled receptor found in brain and neural cell lines, and 
which inhibits adenylate cyclase activity in a dose-dependent, stereoselective
and pertussis toxin-sensitive manner. Also, the receptor is more responsive to
psychoactive cannabinoids than to non-psychoactive cannabinoids. Here we report
the cloning and expression of a complementary DNA that encodes a G
protein-coupled receptor with all of these properties. Its messenger RNA is found
in cell lines and regions of the brain that have cannabinoid receptors. These
findings suggest that this protein is involved in cannabinoid-induced CNS effects
(including alterations in mood and cognition) experienced by users of marijuana.

DOI: 10.1038/346561a0 
PMID: 2165569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Nature. 1990 Aug 9;346(6284):540-4.

Identification of a ribosome receptor in the rough endoplasmic reticulum.

Savitz AJ(1), Meyer DI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, UCLA School of Medicine 90024.

Attachment of ribosomes to the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum is one of
the crucial first steps in the transport and secretion of intracellular proteins 
in mammalian cells. The process is mediated by an integral membrane protein of
relative molecular mass 180,000 (Mr 180K), having a large (at least 160K)
cytosolic domain that, when proteolytically detached from the membrane, can
competitively inhibit the binding of ribosomes to intact membranes. Isolation of 
this domain has led to the identification, purification and characterization of
the intact ribosome receptor, as well as its functional reconstitution into lipid
vesicles.

DOI: 10.1038/346540a0 
PMID: 2165568  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Nature. 1990 Aug 9;346(6284):534-9.

Sequential initiation of lagging and leading strand synthesis by two different
polymerase complexes at the SV40 DNA replication origin.

Tsurimoto T(1), Melendy T, Stillman B.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, New York 11724.

Enzymatic synthesis of DNA from the simian virus 40 origin of DNA replication has
been reconstituted in vitro with eight purified components. DNA polymerase
alpha-primase complex first initiates DNA synthesis at the replication origin and
continues as the lagging strand polymerase. Subsequently, the DNA polymerase
delta complex initiates replication on the leading strand template. Some
prokaryotic DNA polymerase complexes can replace the eukaryotic polymerase delta 
complex. A model for polymerase switching during initiation of DNA replication is
presented.

DOI: 10.1038/346534a0 
PMID: 2165567  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Nature. 1990 Aug 9;346(6284):583-6.

Autoregulation of pit-1 gene expression mediated by two cis-active promoter
elements.

Chen RP(1), Ingraham HA, Treacy MN, Albert VR, Wilson L, Rosenfeld MG.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular Genetics, School of Medicine, La Jolla, California 92093.

The pit-1 gene is a member of a large family of genes that encode proteins which 
are involved in development and which contain a highly homologous region,
referred to as the POU domain. Pit-1, a pituitary-specific transcription factor, 
can activate the transcription of the growth hormone and prolactin promoters. It 
is expressed in mature thyrotroph, somatotroph and lactotroph cell types of the
anterior pituitary which arise sequentially during development; somatotrophs and 
lactotrophs, which secrete growth hormone and prolactin, respectively, are the
last to arise. Intriguingly, during ontogeny, pit-1 transcripts are observed in
the rat neural tube and neural plate (embryonic day 10-11) and disappear
thereafter (day 13), only to reappear exclusively in the anterior lobe of the
pituitary gland (day 15) just before activation of prolactin and growth hormone. 
This biphasic pattern suggests a complex mechanism of initial activation of pit-1
gene expression. Transcription and transfection analyses in vitro using wild-type
and mutated promoters indicate that Pit-1 can positively autoregulate the
expression of the pit-1 promoter as a consequence of binding to two Pit-1-binding
elements. Mutation of the 5' Pit-1-binding site abolished positive
autoregulation, whereas mutation of the element located immediately 3' of the cap
site markedly increased expression of the pit-1 promoter. These data are
consistent with a positive, attenuated autoregulatory loop that seems to function
in maintaining pit-1 gene expression.

DOI: 10.1038/346583a0 
PMID: 2142999  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Nature. 1990 Aug 9;346(6284):574-6.

Quantitation of antigen-presenting cell MHC class II/peptide complexes necessary 
for T-cell stimulation.

Harding CV(1), Unanue ER.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis,
Missouri 63110.

The number of specific complexes formed between peptide and the class II major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules expressed by an antigen-presenting
cell (APC) after exposure to protein antigens is unknown, as is the number that
activates T cells. Presentation of foreign peptides by APC takes place when many 
class II molecules may be occupied by autologous peptides. We have now estimated 
the number of specific peptide/class II complexes per APC by quantitative
immunoprecipitation of I-Ak after pulsing the APC with stimulatory levels of a
radioactive immunogenic peptide derived from hen egg-white lysozyme protein. T
cells were activated by APC that expressed as few as 210-340 specific
peptide/class II complexes (0.1% of the I-Ak molecules). These figures were
confirmed using anti-CD3 antibody bound to latex beads as an alternative
activating ligand. This low number explains the simultaneous presentation of
multiple foreign antigens, even in the face of peptide competition.

DOI: 10.1038/346574a0 
PMID: 2115981  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Nature. 1990 Aug 9;346(6284):565-7.

Channel kinetics determine the time course of NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic
currents.

Lester RA(1), Clements JD, Westbrook GL, Jahr CE.

Author information: 
(1)Vollum Institute, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland 97201.

Synaptic release of glutamate results in a two component excitatory postsynaptic 
current (e.p.s.c.) at many vertebrate central synapses. Non-N-methyl-D-aspartate 
receptors mediate a component that has a rapid onset and decay while the
component mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors has a slow rise-time 
and a decay of several hundred milliseconds, 100 times longer than the mean open 
time of NMDA channels. The slow decay of the NMDA-mediated e.p.s.c. could be due 
to residual glutamate in the synaptic cleft resulting in repeated binding and
activation of NMDA receptors. However, in cultured hippocampal neurons, we find
that the NMDA receptor antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate has no effect
on the slow e.p.s.c. when rapidly applied after activation of the synapse,
suggesting that rebinding of glutamate does not occur. In addition, a brief pulse
of glutamate to an outside-out membrane patch results in openings of NMDA
channels that persist for hundreds of milliseconds, indicating that glutamate can
remain bound for this period. These results imply that a brief pulse of glutamate
in the synaptic cleft is sufficient to account for the slow e.p.s.c.

DOI: 10.1038/346565a0 
PMID: 1974037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Nature. 1990 Aug 2;346(6283):488-90.

Detection and characterization of a folding intermediate in barnase by NMR.

Bycroft M(1), Matouschek A, Kellis JT Jr, Serrano L, Fersht AR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, UK.

Protein engineering is being developed for mapping the energetics and pathway of 
protein folding. From kinetic studies on wild-type and mutant proteins, the
sequence and energetics of formation of tertiary interactions of side chains can 
be mapped and the formation of secondary structure inferred. Here we cross-check 
and complement results from this approach by using a recently developed procedure
that traps and characterizes secondary structure in intermediate states using 1H 
NMR. The refolding of barnase is shown to be a multiphasic process in which the
secondary structure in alpha-helices and beta-sheets and some turns is formed
more rapidly than is the overall folding.

DOI: 10.1038/346488a0 
PMID: 2377210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Nature. 1990 Aug 2;346(6283):474-6.

The alpha 1 domain of the HLA-DR molecule is essential for high-affinity binding 
of the toxic shock syndrome toxin-1.

Karp DR(1), Teletski CL, Scholl P, Geha R, Long EO.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Immunogenetics, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

Several exoproteins from the bacterium Staphylococcus aureus are highly potent
polyclonal activators of T cells in the presence of cells bearing class II
antigens of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). These toxins, including
the toxic shock syndrome toxin (TSST-1), act at nanomolar concentrations, bind
directly to class II molecules, and do not require the processing typical of
nominal antigen. Each toxin is capable of stimulating a subpopulation of
peripheral T lymphocytes bearing particular V beta sequences as part of their
alpha beta T-cell receptors. It is not known how these so-called 'superantigens' 
bind to class II and how this binding stimulates T cells. In this study, the
different affinities of TSST-1 for human class II molecules DR and DP were
exploited to define the region of a class II molecule necessary for high-affinity
binding. Using chimaeric alpha- and beta-chains of DR and DP expressed at the
surface of transfected murine fibroblasts and a binding assay with TSST-1, it was
shown that the alpha 1 domain of DR is essential for high-affinity binding, and
further that TSST-1 binding did not prevent subsequent binding of a DR-restricted
antigenic peptide. This is compatible with a model of superantigen making
external contacts with both class II and T cell receptor, and suggests that the V
beta portion of the T-cell receptor interacts with the nonpolymorphic alpha-chain
of DR.

DOI: 10.1038/346474a0 
PMID: 2377209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Nature. 1990 Aug 2;346(6283):471-3.

Residues of the variable region of the T-cell-receptor beta-chain that interact
with S. aureus toxin superantigens.

Choi YW(1), Herman A, DiGiusto D, Wade T, Marrack P, Kappler J.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute Division of Basic Immunology, National Jewish 
Center for Immunology, and Respiratory Medicine, Denver, Colorado 80206.

The alpha beta T-cell antigen receptor (TCR) recognizes antigenic peptides in the
context of self major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules. The specificity
of recognition of MHC plus antigen is generally determined by a combination of
the variable elements of alpha- and beta-chains of the TCR. Several types of
antigen, however, have been identified that, when bound to MHC molecules,
stimulate T cells bearing particular variable-region beta-chain (V beta) elements
irrespective of the other variable components of the TCR. These have been termed 
'superantigens', and here we are concerned with one type of superantigen, the
toxins produced by Staphylococcus aureus. T cells have been found that bear
closely related members of the same V beta family but respond differently to S.
aureus toxins; in particular, cells bearing the human V beta 13.2 element respond
to toxin SEC2, whereas cells bearing human V beta 13.1 do not. We have now
defined the residues of the V beta element responsible for this difference, and
find that they reside in a region thought to lie on the side of the TCR molecule,
away from the conventional antigen/MHC-binding site. The evolutionary
conservation of this site may be due to its having an important role in some
function of the TCR other than the binding of conventional antigen plus MHC.

DOI: 10.1038/346471a0 
PMID: 2377208  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Nature. 1990 Aug 2;346(6283):470-1.

Linkage of a nasopharyngeal carcinoma susceptibility locus to the HLA region.

Lu SJ(1), Day NE, Degos L, Lepage V, Wang PC, Chan SH, Simons M, McKnight B,
Easton D, Zeng Y, et al.

Author information: 
(1)People's Regional Hospital, Nanning, People's Republic of China.

The frequency of nasopharyngeal carcinoma is nearly 100-fold higher in southern
Chinese than in most European populations. Earlier studies have suggested that an
increased risk of nasopharyngeal carcinoma is associated with specific haplotypes
in the HLA region: relative risks slightly over twofold were found for haplotypes
A2, Bw46 and the antigen B17. We now report a linkage study based on affected sib
pairs which suggests that a gene closely linked to the HLA locus confers a
greatly increased risk of nasopharyngeal carcinoma. The maximum likelihood
estimate is of a relative risk of approximately 21. The relationship between this
suspected disease susceptibility gene (or genes) and known viral and
environmental aetiological factors remains to be elucidated.

DOI: 10.1038/346470a0 
PMID: 2377207  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Nature. 1990 Aug 2;346(6283):448-51.

Spatial structures in microtubular solutions requiring a sustained energy source.

Tabony J(1), Job D.

Author information: 
(1)Département de Biologie Moléculaire et Structurale, B.R.C.E.-C.S., Centre
d'Etudes Nucléaires, Grenoble, France.

Microtubules are believed to be the principal organizers of the cell interior.
Cells respond to a variety of stimuli by modifying the spatial distribution of
the microtubules. These effects are central to cell division and morphogenesis,
and embryo development. During embryo development, macroscopic patterns are
frequently observed. Here we report that microtubular solutions spontaneously
form alternating white and dark stripes about 1 mm wide and 1 cm long.
Small-angle neutron scattering measurements show that in each segment the
microtubules are aligned obliquely to the direction of the stripe, and that the
white and dark stripes differ in having mutually orthogonal orientations. The
formation of these structures requires an initial reservoir of organic phosphate.
Phosphorus NMR measurements show that the process is accompanied by the
energy-liberating conversion of organic to inorganic phosphate. These
observations, together with similarities to the dissipative spatial structure
formed by the Belousov-Zhabotinski reaction, provide strong evidence that the
observed structures are energy-dissipative in nature. Dissipative structures are 
thought to be critical to the appearance of complex living organisms. Our results
strongly suggest that microtubules are capable of forming such structures.
Microtubular dissipative structures may occur during mitosis and embryo
morphogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/346448a0 
PMID: 2377206  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Nature. 1990 Aug 2;346(6283):440-5.

Transient folding intermediates characterized by protein engineering.

Matouschek A(1), Kellis JT Jr, Serrano L, Bycroft M, Fersht AR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, UK.

Kinetic experiments on engineered mutants of barnase detect an intermediate on
the folding pathway and allow the mapping of the tertiary interactions of the
side chains and their energetics. Many of the interactions present in the final
folded state tend to be either fully formed or not formed at all in the
intermediate or subsequent transition state for folding, but the hydrophobic core
becomes progressively consolidated. These methods in combination with NMR provide
extensive structural characterization of the folding intermediate and the
sequence of events in the folding pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/346440a0 
PMID: 2377205  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Nature. 1990 Aug 2;346(6283):476-80.

Empty MHC class I molecules come out in the cold.

Ljunggren HG(1), Stam NJ, Ohlén C, Neefjes JJ, Höglund P, Heemels MT, Bastin J,
Schumacher TN, Townsend A, Kärre K, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Tumor Biology, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.

Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules present antigen by
transporting peptides from intracellularly degraded proteins to the cell surface 
for scrutiny by cytotoxic T cells. Recent work suggests that peptide binding may 
be required for efficient assembly and intracellular transport of MHC class I
molecules, but it is not clear whether class I molecules can ever assemble in the
absence of peptide. We report here that culture of the murine lymphoma mutant
cell line RMA-S at reduced temperature (19-33 degrees C) promotes assembly, and
results in a high level of cell surface expression of H-2/beta 2-microglobulin
complexes that do not present endogenous antigens, and are labile at 37 degrees
C. They can be stabilized at 37 degrees C by exposure to specific peptides known 
to interact with H-2Kb or Db. Our findings suggest that, in the absence of
peptides, class I molecules can assemble but are unstable at body temperature.
The induction of such molecules at reduced temperature opens new ways to analyse 
the nature of MHC class I peptide interactions at the cell surface.

DOI: 10.1038/346476a0 
PMID: 2198471  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Nature. 1990 Aug 2;346(6283):480-2.

Specific expression of a silk-encoding gene of Bombyx in the anterior salivary
gland of Drosophila.

Bello B(1), Couble P.

Author information: 
(1)Université Claude Bernard-Lyon 1, Centre de Génétique Moléculaire et
Cellulaire, UMR 106 du CNRS, Villeurbanne, France.

Successful expression of genes transferred into distantly related species in
which genetic functions have been maintained through evolution has been reported 
previously. In the case of the silkmoth Bombyx mori and the fruitfly Drosophila
melanogaster, both of which produce chorions (eggshells), Bombyx chorion genes
are correctly expressed in Drosophila despite their estimated 240-Myr
phylogenetic divergence. Here we report that, although Drosophila does not
produce silk, mechanisms regulating transcription have been conserved between the
salivary gland of the fruitfly and the silk gland of the silkmoth larva.

DOI: 10.1038/346480a0 
PMID: 2115980  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


241. Nature. 1990 Aug 2;346(6283):485-8.

The orthodenticle gene is regulated by bicoid and torso and specifies Drosophila 
head development.

Finkelstein R(1), Perrimon N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Aug 2;346(6283):412-3.

In the Drosophila embryo, cell fate along the anterior-posterior axis is
determined by maternally expressed genes. The activity of the bicoid (bcd) gene
is required for the development of larval head and thoracic structures, and that 
of maternal torso (tor) for the development of the unsegmented region of the head
(acron). In contrast to the case of thoracic and abdominal segmentation, the
hierarchy of zygotically expressed genes controlling head development has not
been clearly defined. The bcd protein, which is expressed in a gradient,
activates zygotic expression of the gap gene hunchback (hb), but hb alone is not 
sufficient to specify head development. Driever et al. proposed that at least one
other bcd-activated gene controls the development of head regions anterior to the
hb domain. We report here that the homeobox gene orthodenticle (otd), which is
involved in head development, could be such a gene. We also show that otd
expression responds to the activity of the maternal tor gene at the anterior pole
of the embryo.

DOI: 10.1038/346485a0 
PMID: 1974036  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Nature. 1990 Aug 2;346(6283):482-5.

Mediation of Drosophila head development by gap-like segmentation genes.

Cohen SM(1), Jürgens G.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX
77030.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Aug 2;346(6283):412-3.

The first phase of embryonic development in Drosophila consists of the
elaboration and interpretation of maternally encoded information that specifies
spatial pattern in the embryo. The product of the maternal gene bicoid (bcd) is
thought to organize the anterior pattern of the embryo. Although the bcd
transcript is localized at the anterior pole of the egg the bcd protein forms a
stable concentration gradient through the anterior two thirds of the embryo. The 
graded distribution of bcd protein defines position along the anterior-posterior 
axis of the embryo through the spatially restricted activation of subordinate
targets such as the gap gene hunchback (hb). In vitro manipulation of specific
bcd protein binding sites has shown that the gradient of bcd protein can in
principle define more than one discrete domain of spatially restricted gene
activation in the head of the embryo, depending on the affinity of the available 
binding sites for the bcd protein. Genetic analysis has indicated the need for at
least one additional zygotic segmentation gene to mediate bcd function in
portions of the head that lie anterior to the hb domain. The missing gene
activity is expected to be activated in response to higher levels of bcd protein 
than are required for hb activation. We report here that three previously
identified zygotic genes buttonhead (btd), empty spiracles (ems) and
orthodenticle (otd) may behave like gap genes that mediate bcd function in the
embryonic head.

DOI: 10.1038/346482a0 
PMID: 1974035  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Nature. 1990 Aug 2;346(6283):467-70.

Dual-component NMDA receptor currents at a single central synapse.

D'Angelo E(1), Rossi P, Garthwaite J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Liverpool, UK.

Present thinking about the way that the NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) class of
glutamate receptor operates at central synapses relies mainly on information
obtained from single-channel and whole-cell recordings from cultured neurons
stimulated by exogenous NMDA receptor agonists. The mechanisms that operate in
the postsynaptic membrane of a normal neuron following release of the natural
transmitter are far less clear. An important problem is that most normal neurons 
receive many excitatory synapses (10(3)-10(5) per cell) and these synapses are
located on slender dendritic elements far away from the somatic recording site,
making the study of discrete synaptic events difficult. Typically, when
populations of synapses are activated, NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic potentials
appear as slowly rising, long-lasting waves superimposed on faster,
non-NMDA-receptor potentials. Although believed to be critical for NMDA receptor 
function, this slow time-course would not be predicted from single-channel
kinetics and its origin remains puzzling. We have now analysed the events
occurring at the level of a single excitatory synapse using a simple, small,
neuron--the cerebellar granule cell--which has an unusually simple glutamatergic 
input. By applying high-resolution whole-cell recording techniques to these cells
in situ, we were able to study the nature of elementary NMDA receptor-mediated
synaptic currents. Contrary to expectations, the prominent currents are fast but 
are followed by slow ones. Both types of current are strongly voltage-dependent
but differ subtly in this respect. Furthermore, the currents are absent unless
glycine is provided.

DOI: 10.1038/346467a0 
PMID: 1974034  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Nature. 1990 Aug 2;346(6283):464-7.

Arachidonic acid metabolites as mediators of somatostatin-induced increase of
neuronal M-current.

Schweitzer P(1), Madamba S, Siggins GR.

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute of Scripps Clinic, Department of Neuropharmacology, La
Jolla, California 92037.

The M-current (IM) is a time- and voltage-dependent K+ current that persists at
slightly depolarized membrane potentials. IM is reduced by muscarinic cholinergic
agonists and certain peptides, and is thought to be responsible in part for the
slow and late slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials in sympathetic neurons.
Recently, we reported that IM in hippocampal neurons was also augmented by
somatostatin-14 and -28 suggesting that two different receptors reciprocally
regulate one neuronal channel type. Muscarinic effects on IM may be mediated by
various components of the phosphatidylinositol phosphate pathway. We now report
the involvement of a different second messenger pathway, that generated by
phospholipase A2, in the somatostatin-induced augmentation of IM in hippocampal
cells. This pathway generates arachidonic acid from which leukotrienes can be
produced by lipoxygenases. We find that the IM-augmenting effects of somatostatin
are abolished by two substances that can inhibit phospholipase A2, quinacrine and
4-bromophenacyl bromide, and that both arachidonic acid and leukotriene C4 mimic 
the effects of somatostatin-14 on hippocampal pyramidal neurons in vitro.
Arachidonic and somatostatin effects are blocked by a lipoxygenase inhibitor,
implicating an arachidonic acid metabolite, perhaps a leukotriene, in the
somatostatin effect.

DOI: 10.1038/346464a0 
PMID: 1974033  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Nature. 1990 Aug 2;346(6283):425-34.

Adhesion receptors of the immune system.

Springer TA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

The adhesive interactions of cells with other cells and with the extracellular
matrix are crucial to all developmental processes, but have a central role in the
functions of the immune system throughout life. Three families of cell-surface
molecules regulate the migration of lymphocytes and the interactions of activated
cells during immune responses.

DOI: 10.1038/346425a0 
PMID: 1974032  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Nature. 1990 Jul 26;346(6282):366-9.

A cluster of cystic fibrosis mutations in the first nucleotide-binding fold of
the cystic fibrosis conductance regulator protein.

Cutting GR(1), Kasch LM, Rosenstein BJ, Zielenski J, Tsui LC, Antonarakis SE,
Kazazian HH Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Medical Genetics, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21205.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jul 26;346(6282):312-3.

The gene responsible for cystic fibrosis (CF) has recently been identified and is
predicted to encode a protein of 1,480 amino acids called the CF transmembrane
conductance regulator (CFTR). Several functional regions are thought to exist in 
the CFTR protein, including two areas for ATP-binding, termed nucleotide-binding 
folds (NBFs), a regulatory (R) region that has many possible sites for
phosphorylation by protein kinases A and C, and two hydrophobic regions that
probably interact with cell membranes. The most common CF gene mutation leads to 
omission of phenylalanine residue 508 in the putative first NBF, indicating that 
this region is functionally important. To determine whether other mutations occur
in the NBFs of CFTR, we determined the nucleotide sequences of exons 9, 10, 11
and 12 (encoding the first NBF) and exons 20, 21 and 22 (encoding most of the
second NBF) from 20 Caucasian and 18 American-black CF patients. One cluster of
four mutations was discovered in a 30-base-pair region of exon 11. Three of these
mutations cause amino-acid substitutions at residues that are highly conserved
among the CFTR protein, the multiple-drug-resistance proteins and ATP-binding
membrane-associated transport proteins. The fourth mutation creates a premature
termination signal. These mutations reveal a functionally important region in the
CFTR protein and provide further evidence that CFTR is a member of the family of 
ATP-dependent transport proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/346366a0 
PMID: 1695717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Nature. 1990 Jul 26;346(6282):387-90.

Highly conserved core domain and unique N terminus with presumptive regulatory
motifs in a human TATA factor (TFIID).

Hoffman A(1), Sinn E, Yamamoto T, Wang J, Roy A, Horikoshi M, Roeder RG.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Rockefeller University, New 
York, New York 10021.

The factor TFIID is one of several general factors that are necessary and
sufficient for transcription initiation by mammalian RNA polymerase II. Stable
interactions with the common TATA element lead both to template commitment and to
the assembly of the other general factors into a functional preinitiation
complex. Consistent with its key role in the promoter activation pathway, human
TFIID also seems to be a target for some regulatory factors, as evidenced both by
physical and functional studies of interactions between these components. The
evolutionary conservation of functional properties led to the purification and
cloning of yeast TFIID, the identification of presumptive structural motifs, and 
direct structure-function studies. Here we report the cloning of a complementary 
DNA encoding a functional human TFIID. This reveals an evolutionarily conserved
core which corresponds precisely to the 180-residue DNA binding/activation domain
determined for yeast TFIID, a near absolute conservation of component structural 
motifs (direct repeats, central basic core/lysine repeat, and sigma homology),
providing further support for their functional importance, and a unique
N-terminal structure that suggests involvement in species-specific regulatory
factor interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/346387a0 
PMID: 2374612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Nature. 1990 Jul 26;346(6282):385-6.

Widespread distribution and fitness contribution of Xanthomonas campestris
avirulence gene avrBs2.

Kearney B(1), Staskawicz BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Pathology, University of California, Berkeley 94720.

Disease-resistance genes introduced into cultivated plants are often rendered
ineffective by the ability of pathogen populations to overcome host resistance.
The bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas campestris pathovar vesicatoria causes
bacterial spot disease of tomato and pepper, and this pathogen has been shown to 
overcome disease resistance in pepper (Capsicum annuum) by evading the
recognition and defence response of the host plant. Numerous resistance genes to 
bacterial spot have been identified in pepper and its wild relatives, each
providing resistance to specific races of X.c. vesicatoria. The resistance gene
Bs1, for example, provides resistance to X.c. vesicatoria strains expressing the 
avirulence gene avrBs1; Bs2 provides resistance to stains expressing avrBs2 and
so on. We now report that avr Bs2 is highly conserved among strains of X.c.
vesicatoria, and among many other pathovars of X. campestris. Furthermore, we
find that avrBs2 is in fact needed for full virulence of the pathogen on
susceptible hosts. This implies that plants carrying Bs2 can recognize an
essential gene of the bacterial pathogen, which may explain why Bs2 confers the
only effective field resistance to X.c. vesicatoria in pepper.

DOI: 10.1038/346385a0 
PMID: 2374611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Nature. 1990 Jul 26;346(6282):382-5.

New variation on the translocation of proteins during early biogenesis of
apolipoprotein B.

Chuck SL(1), Yao Z, Blackhart BD, McCarthy BJ, Lingappa VR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California 94143.

Apolipoprotein B (apo B) is crucial for the transport of cholesterol in humans.
It is a large secretory protein that mediates the uptake of low-density
lipoproteins and renders several forms of lipid droplets soluble in the blood.
The binding of lipid by apo B also prevents this hydrophobic protein from
precipitating in aqueous solution. In the endoplasmic reticulum, nascent
secretory proteins must be translocated through an aqueous channel in the
membrane into the aqueous lumen, so some novel form of processing may be
necessary to maintain the solubility of apo B during its translocation. We have
discovered that the biogenesis of apo B in cell-free systems does indeed involve 
a new variation on protein translocation: unlike typical secretory proteins, apo 
B is synthesized as a series of transmembrane chains with large cytoplasmic
domains and progressively longer amino-terminal regions that are protected
against added proteases during the translocation process. In contrast to typical 
transmembrane proteins, these transmembrane chains are not integrated into the
bilayer. Moreover, the transmembrane chains with the shortest protected domains
are precursors of forms whose protection is progressively extended to cover the
length of the protein. This stepwise conversion occurs post-translationally for
the most part. We propose a model on the basis of these findings for the
biogenesis of apo B.

DOI: 10.1038/346382a0 
PMID: 2374610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Nature. 1990 Jul 26;346(6282):371-4.

Suppression of experimental glomerulonephritis by antiserum against transforming 
growth factor beta 1.

Border WA(1), Okuda S, Languino LR, Sporn MB, Ruoslahti E.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Nephrology, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City 
84132.

Glomerulonephritis is an inflammation of the kidney characterized by the
accumulation of extracellular matrix within the damaged glomeruli, impaired
filtration and proteinuria. In its progressive form, the disease destroys kidney 
function leading to uraemia and death, unless dialysis therapy or kidney
transplantation is available. The pathogenesis of glomerulonephritis is
incompletely understood, but the eliciting factor is thought often to be an
immunological injury to mesangial and/or other resident cells in the glomeruli.
We have used an animal model of acute mesangial proliferative glomerulonephritis 
to show that this disease is associated with increased production and activity of
transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-beta 1), an inducer of extracellular
matrix production. Here we report that administration of anti-TGF-beta 1 at the
time of induction of the glomerular disease suppresses the increased production
of extracellular matrix and dramatically attenuates histological manifestations
of the disease. These results provide direct evidence for a causal role of
TGF-beta 1 in the pathogenesis of the experimental disease and suggest a new
approach to the therapy of glomerulonephritis.

DOI: 10.1038/346371a0 
PMID: 2374609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Nature. 1990 Jul 26;346(6282):339-42.

DNH deoxyribonucleohelicates: self assembly of oligonucleosidic double-helical
metal complexes.

Koert U(1), Harding MM, Lehn JM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Chimie Supramoléculaire, Institut le Bel, Université Louis
Pasteur, Strasbourg, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jul 26;346(6282):314-5.

Nucleic acids, because of their key biological role, are prime targets for the
design of either analogues that may mimic some of their features or of
complementary ligands that may selectively bind to and react with them for
regulation or reaction. Whereas there has been much work on the latter topic
since the elucidation of the double-helical structure of DNA, comparatively
little has been done on structural and/or functional models, probably owing to
the lack of self-organizing molecular systems. Here we present a class of
artificial systems, the nucleohelicates, which are of interest from both points
of view because they combine the double-helical structure of the double-stranded 
metal complexes, the helicates, with the selective interaction features of
nucleic-acid bases. These functionalized species allow the study of structural
effects on the formation of the double helix and on the binding to other
entities, in particular to nucleic acids.

DOI: 10.1038/346339a0 
PMID: 2374608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Nature. 1990 Jul 26;346(6282):335-9.

Movement of internalized ligand-receptor complexes along a continuous endosomal
reticulum.

Hopkins CR(1), Gibson A, Shipman M, Miller K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Imperial College, London, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jul 26;346(6282):318-9.

Complexes of cell-surface receptors and their ligands are commonly internalized
by endocytosis and enter a prelysosomal endosomal pathway for further processing.
Fluorescence microscopy and video recording of living cells to trace the passage 
of ligand-receptor complexes has identified the endosomal compartment as an
extensive network of tubular cisternae. Endocytosed material entering this
reticulum enters discrete swellings, identified as multivesicular bodies by
electron microscopy, which move along the reticulum towards the pericentriolar
area.

DOI: 10.1038/346335a0 
PMID: 2374607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Nature. 1990 Jul 26;346(6282):394-6.

Spontaneous shuffling of domains between introns of phage T4.

Bryk M(1), Belfort M.

Author information: 
(1)Wadsworth Center for Laboratories & Research, New York State Department of
Health, Albany 12201-0509.

The three self-splicing introns in phage T4 (in the td, sunY and nrdB genes)
(Fig. 1a) each have the conserved group I catalytic RNA core structure (Fig. 1b),
out of which is looped an open reading frame. Although the core sequences are
very similar (approximately 60% identity), the open reading frames seem to be
unrelated. Single crossover recombination events between homologous core
sequences in the closely linked td and nrdB introns have led to 'exon shuffling. 
Here we describe spontaneous double crossovers between the unlinked td and sun Y 
introns that result in shuffling of an intron structure element, P7.1 (refs 3 and
4). The intron domain-switch variants were isolated as genetic suppressors of a
splicing-defective P7.1 deletion in the td intron. This unprecedented example of 
suppression through inter-intron sequence substitution indicates that the introns
are in a state of genetic flux and implies the functional interchangeability of
the two analogous but nonidentical P7.1 elements. The implications of such
recombination events are discussed in the light of the evolution of the introns
themselves as well as that of their host genomes.

DOI: 10.1038/346394a0 
PMID: 2197562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Nature. 1990 Jul 26;346(6282):390-4.

Arabidopsis thaliana contains two genes for TFIID.

Gasch A(1), Hoffmann A, Horikoshi M, Roeder RG, Chua NH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Plant Molecular Biology, Rockefeller University, New York, New
York 1021-6399.

The general transcription initiation factor TFIID plays a primary part in the
activation of eukaryotic genes transcribed by RNA polymerase II. Binding of TFIID
to the TATA box initiates the assembly of other general transcription factors as 
well as RNA polymerase II at the promoter resulting in a preinitiation complex
capable of accurate transcription initiation in vitro. Human TFIID has been shown
to interact with various regulatory factors. The observation that stimulation of 
transcription by different trans-acting factors is mediated through distinct TATA
elements led to the suggestion that different types of TFIID may exist in yeast, 
humans and plants. Here we report the cloning and characterization of two
distinct TFIID complementary DNA clones from Arabidopsis thaliana. Furthermore,
we have found that TFIID from Arabidopsis and other organisms shows homology to
helix-loop-helix proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/346390a0 
PMID: 2197561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Nature. 1990 Jul 26;346(6282):369-71.

No evidence for expression of the insulin-regulatable glucose transporter in
endothelial cells.

Slot JW(1), Moxley R, Geuze HJ, James DE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Medical School, University of Utrecht, The
Netherlands.

A major effect of insulin is to increase glucose transport in muscle and fat. A
family of genes encoding distinct mammalian glucose transporters has recently
been elucidated. One of these, the insulin-regulatable glucose transporter
(IRGT), is primarily expressed in muscle and fat, tissues that exhibit
insulin-dependent glucose transport. Insulin promotes glucose transport in these 
tissues by stimulating movement of the glucose transporter from an intracellular 
location to the plasma membrane. Recent studies, however, suggest that an
additional effect of insulin in these tissues may be the facilitation of glucose 
transport, presumably across capillary endothelium. This hypothesis is based on
the localization of the IRGT in endothelial cells specific to muscle and adipose 
tissue. We report here, however, on morphological and biochemical studies using
several different IRGT-specific antibodies in which we could not reproduce these 
results.

DOI: 10.1038/346369a0 
PMID: 2197560  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Nature. 1990 Jul 26;346(6282):376-9.

Escape of DNA from mitochondria to the nucleus in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Thorsness PE(1), Fox TD.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Genetics and Development, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York
14853-2703.

The migration of genetic information from ancestral prokaryotic endosymbionts
into eukaryotic nuclei is thought to have had an important role in the evolution 
of mitochondria and chloroplasts. Here we describe an assay for the detection of 
movement of DNA between mitochondria and the nucleus in yeast. Because
recombinant plasmid DNA replicates after transformation into mitochondria of
yeast strains lacking endogenous mitochondrial DNA we were able to propagate the 
nuclear genetic marker URA3 in mitochondria. As expected, the wild-type URA3 gene
in mitochondria failed to complement the uracil auxotrophy (Ura-) caused by a
nuclear ura3 mutation. But selection of Ura+ prototrophs from a Ura- strain
carrying URA3 on a plasmid in its mitochondria enabled us to detect plasmid
movement to the nucleus. Conversely, as the plasmid used also contained the
mitochondrial gene COX2 required for respiratory growth, we were able to set up
corresponding selections to detect migration of DNA from the nucleus to the
mitochondria. Our results show that, in yeast, DNA escapes from mitochondria and 
appears in the nucleus at a surprisingly high frequency (approximately 2 x 10(-5)
per cell per generation). But the rate at which DNA makes the journey in the
opposite direction--nucleus to mitochondria--is apparently at least 100,000 times
less.

DOI: 10.1038/346376a0 
PMID: 2165219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Nature. 1990 Jul 26;346(6282):379-82.

Triggering of cyclin degradation in interphase extracts of amphibian eggs by cdc2
kinase.

Félix MA(1), Labbé JC, Dorée M, Hunt T, Karsenti E.

Author information: 
(1)EMBL, Heidelberg, FRG.

The cell cycles of early Xenopus embryos consist of a rapid succession of
alternating S and M phases. These cycles are controlled by the activity of a
protein kinase complex (cdc2 kinase) which contains two subunits. One subunit is 
encoded by the frog homologue of the fission yeast cdc2+ gene, p34cdc2 and the
other is a cyclin. The concentration of cyclins follows a sawtooth oscillation
because they accumulate in interphase and are destroyed abruptly during mitosis. 
The association of cyclin and p34cdc2 is not sufficient for activation of cdc2
kinase, however; dephosphorylation of key tyrosine and threonine residues of
p34cdc2 is necessary to turn on its kinase activity. The activity of cdc2 kinase 
is thus regulated by a combination of translational and post-translational
mechanisms. The loss of cdc2 kinase activity at the end of mitosis depends on the
destruction of the cyclin subunits. It has been suggested that this destruction
is induced by cdc2 kinase itself, thereby providing a negative feedback loop to
terminate mitosis. Here we report direct experimental evidence for this idea by
showing that cyclin proteolysis can be triggered by adding cdc2 kinase to a
cell-free extract of interphase Xenopus eggs.

DOI: 10.1038/346379a0 
PMID: 2142754  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Nature. 1990 Jul 26;346(6282):329-31.

Activators and targets.

Ptashne M(1), Gann AA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138.

Proteins that activate genes are quite disparate in character; in particular,
some work 'universally' and others do not. A simple model can accommodate most of
the recently published results.

DOI: 10.1038/346329a0 
PMID: 2142753  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Nature. 1990 Jul 26;346(6282):362-5.

Structural model of ATP-binding proteins associated with cystic fibrosis,
multidrug resistance and bacterial transport.

Hyde SC(1), Emsley P, Hartshorn MJ, Mimmack MM, Gileadi U, Pearce SR, Gallagher
MP, Gill DR, Hubbard RE, Higgins CF.

Author information: 
(1)Imperial Cancer Research Fund Laboratories, University of Oxford, John
Radcliffe Hospital, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jul 26;346(6282):312-3.

The ATP-binding cassette (ABC) superfamily of transport systems now includes over
thirty proteins that share extensive sequence similarity and domain organization.
This superfamily includes the well characterized periplasmic binding
protein-dependent uptake systems of prokaryotes, bacterial exporters, and
eukaryotic proteins including the P-glycoprotein associated with multidrug
resistance in tumours (MDR), the STE6 gene product that mediates export of yeast 
a-factor mating pheromone, pfMDR that is implicated in chloroquine resistance of 
the malarial parasite, and the product of the cystic fibrosis gene (CFTR). Here
we present a tertiary structure model of the ATP-binding cassettes characteristic
of this class of transport system, based on similarities between the predicted
secondary structures of members of this family and the previously determined
structure of adenylate kinase. This model has implications for both the molecular
basis of transport and cystic fibrosis and provides a framework for further
experimentation.

DOI: 10.1038/346362a0 
PMID: 1973824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Nature. 1990 Jul 26;346(6282):374-6.

Voltage-dependent InsP3-insensitive calcium channels in membranes of pancreatic
endoplasmic reticulum vesicles.

Schmid A(1), Dehlinger-Kremer M, Schulz I, Gögelein H.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Biophysik, Frankfurt (Main), FRG.

Stimulus-secretion coupling in exocrine glands involves Ca2+ release from
intracellular stores. In endoplasmic reticulum vesicle preparations from rat
exocrine pancreas, an inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate(InsP3)-sensitive, as well as
an InsP3-insensitive, Ca2+ pool has been characterized. But Ca2+ channels in the 
endoplasmic reticulum of rat exocrine pancreas have not been demonstrated at the 
level of single-channel current. We have now used the patch-clamp technique on
endoplasmic reticulum vesicles fused by means of the dehydration-rehydration
method. In excised patches, single Ba2(+)- and Ca2(+)-selective channels were
recorded. The channel activity was markedly voltage-dependent. Caffeine increased
channel open-state probability, whereas ruthenium red and Cd2+ blocked
single-channel currents. Ryanodine, nifedipine and heparin had no effect on
channel activity. The channel activity was not dependent on the free Ca2+
concentration, the presence of InsP3, or pH. We conclude that this calcium
channel mediates Ca2+ release from an intracellular store through an
InsP3-insensitive mechanism.

DOI: 10.1038/346374a0 
PMID: 1695718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Nature. 1990 Jul 26;346(6282):359-62.

Formation of target-specific neuronal projections in organotypic slice cultures
from rat visual cortex.

Bolz J(1), Novak N, Götz M, Bonhoeffer T.

Author information: 
(1)Friedrich-Miescher-Labor der Max-Planck-Gesellschaft, Tubingen West Germany.

A characteristic feature of the mammalian cortex is that projection neurons
located in distinct cortical layers send their axons to different targets. In
visual cortex, cells in layers 2 and 3 project to other cortical areas, whereas
cells in layers 5 and 6 project to subcortical targets such as the lateral
geniculate nucleus. The proper development of these projections is crucial for
correct functioning of the visual system. Here we show that specific connections 
are established in an organotypic culture system in which rat visual cortex
slices are co-cultured with another slice of the visual cortex or with a thalamic
slice. The laminar origin and cellular morphology in vitro of cortical
projections to other cortical regions or to subcortical targets are remarkably
similar to those seen in vivo. In addition, axons of projecting cells are not
restricted to particular pathways, but appear instead to grow directly towards
their appropriate target. These observations raise the possibility that
chemotropic attraction from the target areas may play an important part in the
development of the cortical projection pattern.

DOI: 10.1038/346359a0 
PMID: 1695716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Nature. 1990 Jul 19;346(6281):294-6.

Atomic-scale imaging of DNA using scanning tunnelling microscopy.

Driscoll RJ(1), Youngquist MG, Baldeschwieler JD.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena 91125.

The scanning tunnelling microscope (STM) has been used to visualize DNA under
water, under oil and in air. Images of single-stranded DNA have shown that
submolecular resolution is possible. Here we describe atomic-resolution imaging
of duplex DNA. Topographic STM images of uncoated duplex DNA on a graphite
substrate obtained in ultra-high vacuum are presented that show double-helical
structure, base pairs, and atomic-scale substructure. Experimental STM profiles
show excellent correlation with atomic contours of the van der Waals surface of
A-form DNA derived from X-ray crystallography. A comparison of variations in the 
barrier to quantum mechanical tunnelling (barrier-height) with atomic-scale
topography shows correlation over the phosphate-sugar backbone but
anticorrelation over the base pairs. This relationship may be due to the
different chemical characteristics of parts of the molecule. Further
investigation of this phenomenon should lead to a better understanding of the
physics of imaging adsorbates with the STM and may prove useful in sequencing
DNA. The improved resolution compared with previously published STM images of DNA
may be attributable to ultra-high vacuum, high data-pixel density, slow scan
rate, a fortuitously clean and sharp tip and/or a relatively dilute and extremely
clean sample solution. This work demonstrates the potential of the STM for
characterization of large biomolecular structures, but additional development
will be required to make such high resolution imaging of DNA and other large
molecules routine.

DOI: 10.1038/346294a0 
PMID: 2374595  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Nature. 1990 Jul 19;346(6281):281-4.

Negative regulation of transforming growth factor-beta by the proteoglycan
decorin.

Yamaguchi Y(1), Mann DM, Ruoslahti E.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research Center, La Jolla Cancer Research Foundation, California 92037.

Decorin is a small chondroitin-dermatan sulphate proteoglycan consisting of a
core protein and a single glycosaminoglycan chain. Eighty per cent of the core
protein consists of 10 repeats of a leucin-rich sequence of 24 amino acids.
Similar repeats have been found in two other proteoglycans, biglycan and
fibromodulin, and in several other proteins including Drosophila morphogenetic
proteins. Expression of high levels of decorin in Chinese hamster ovary cells has
a dramatic effect on their morphology and growth properties. We now report that
this effect is due at least in part to the ability of decorin to bind
transforming growth factor-beta, an autocrine factor that stimulates the growth
of Chinese hamster ovary cells. As transforming growth factor-beta induces
synthesis of decorin in many cell types, our results suggest that decorin may be 
a component of a feedback system regulating cell growth.

DOI: 10.1038/346281a0 
PMID: 2374594  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Nature. 1990 Jul 19;346(6281):277-9.

HIV requires multiple gp120 molecules for CD4-mediated infection.

Layne SP(1), Merges MJ, Dembo M, Spouge JL, Nara PL.

Author information: 
(1)Theoretical Division, Los Alamos National Laboratory, New Mexico 87545.

Binding of glycoprotein gp120 to the T cell-surface receptor CD4 is a crucial
step in CD4-dependent infection of a target cell by the human immunodeficiency
virus (HIV). Blocking some or all gp120 molecules on the viral surface should
therefore inhibit infection. Consequently, competitive receptor inhibitors, such 
as soluble synthetic CD4 (sCD4), synthetic CD4 peptides and immunoglobulins, have
been investigated in vitro and in vivo, but little is known about the molecular
mechanisms of these inhibitors. We have now quantitatively examined blocking by
soluble CD4 in the hope of gaining insight into the complex process of viral
binding, adsorption and penetration. At low sCD4 concentrations, the inhibition
in three HIV strains is proportional to the binding of gp120. The biological
association constant (gp120-sCD4 Kassoc) for HIV-2NIHZ is (8.5 +/- 0.5) x 10(7)
M-1, whereas Kassoc for HIV-1HXB3 (1.4 +/- 0.2) and HIV-1MN (1.7 +/- 0.1) x 10(9)
M-1 are 15-20-fold larger. For all three viral strains, the biological Kassoc
from infectivity assays is comparable to the chemical Kassoc. The inhibitory
action of sCD4 at high concentrations, however, is not fully explained by simple 
proportionality with the binding to gp120. Positive synergy in blocking of
infection occurs after about half the viral gp120s molecules are occupied, and is
identical for all three viral strains, despite the large differences in Kassoc.
Our method of measuring the viral-cell receptor Kassoc directly from infectivity 
assays is applicable to immunoglobulins, to other viruses and to assays using
primary or transformed cell lines.

DOI: 10.1038/346277a0 
PMID: 2374593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Nature. 1990 Jul 19;346(6281):274-6.

Mast cells as a source of both preformed and immunologically inducible
TNF-alpha/cachectin.

Gordon JR(1), Galli SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02215.

Tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha)/cachectin is a multifunctional cytokine 
that has effects in inflammation, sepsis, lipid and protein metabolism,
haematopoiesis, angiogenesis and host resistance to parasites and malignancy.
TNF-alpha was first described in activated macrophages, but certain mouse or rat 
mast cell populations (reviewed in refs 4,5) and some in vitro-derived human
cells with cytochemical features of mast cells-basophils may also contain
products similar to TNF-alpha. Here we present evidence that resident mouse
peritoneal mast cells constitutively contain large amounts of TNF-alpha
bioactivity, whereas cultured, immature mast cells vary in their TNF-alpha
content. IgE-dependent activation of cultured or peritoneal mast cells induces
extracellular release of TNF-alpha and augments levels of TNF-alpha messenger RNA
and bioactivity. These findings identify mouse mast cells as an important source 
of both preformed and immunologically inducible TNF-alpha, and suggest that
release of TNF-alpha by mast cells may contribute to host defence, the
pathophysiology of allergic diseases and other processes dependent on TNF-alpha.

DOI: 10.1038/346274a0 
PMID: 2374592  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Nature. 1990 Jul 19;346(6281):267-9.

Spatial representation of words in the brain implied by studies of a unilateral
neglect patient.

Caramazza A(1), Hillis AE.

Author information: 
(1)Cognitive Science Center, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21218.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jul 19;346(6281):217-8.

Reading and writing require access to stored knowledge about the spelling of
words. Presumably, we recognize chair but not chare or chiar as a word of
English, and similarly would write 'chair' but not 'chare' or 'chiar', because we
access orthographic representations that specify the identity and the order of
the graphemes (abstract letter representations) that comprise the spelling of
words. Thus, a fundamental problem concerns the content and structure of the
hypothesized orthographic representations, and how information about grapheme
order is represented and processed. We present evidence from a brain-damaged
patient (N.G.) with unilateral neglect that this information is coded spatially. 
Unilateral neglect is a disorder clinically characterized by the inability to
perceive or respond to stimuli presented to the side contralateral to the site of
lesion, despite the absence of significant sensory or motor deficits. The patient
made reading and spelling errors only on the right half of words, regardless of
length. Furthermore, she produced the same pattern of errors in reading and
spelling, irrespective of the topographic arrangement of stimuli in reading
(horizontal, vertical or mirror-reversed words) and of the type of response in
spelling (written, oral or backward oral spelling). This pattern of performance
suggests that order information in orthographic representations is coded
spatially in a word-centred coordinate system; that is, in a spatially defined
coordinate frame whose centre corresponds to the midpoint of a canonical,
orientation-invariant representation of the word and not the midpoint of the word
stimulus.

DOI: 10.1038/346267a0 
PMID: 2374591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Nature. 1990 Jul 19;346(6281):265-7.

Energetics of running: a new perspective.

Kram R(1), Taylor CR.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard University, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Bedford, Massachusetts
01730.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jul 19;346(6281):220-1.

The amount of energy used to run a mile is nearly the same whether it is run at
top speed or at a leisurely pace (although it is used more rapidly at the higher 
speed). This puzzling independence of energy cost and speed is found generally
among running animals, although, on a per gram basis, cost is much higher for
smaller animals. Running involves little work against the environment; work is
done by muscles and tendons to lift and accelerate the body and limbs. Some of
the work is recovered from muscle-tendon springs without metabolic cost and work 
rate does not parallel metabolic rate with either speed or size. Regardless of
the amount of work muscles do, they must be activated and develop force to
support the weight of the body. Load-carrying experiments have shown that the
cost of supporting an extra newton of load is the same as the weight-specific
cost of running. Size differences in cost are proportional to stride frequency at
equivalent speeds, suggesting that the time available for developing force is
important in determining cost. We report a simple inverse relationship between
the rate of energy used for running and the time the foot applies force to the
ground during each stride. These results support the hypothesis that it is
primarily the cost of supporting the animal's weight and the time course of
generating this force that determines the cost of running.

DOI: 10.1038/346265a0 
PMID: 2374590  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Nature. 1990 Jul 19;346(6281):245-50.

A gene mapping to the sex-determining region of the mouse Y chromosome is a
member of a novel family of embryonically expressed genes.

Gubbay J(1), Collignon J, Koopman P, Capel B, Economou A, Münsterberg A, Vivian
N, Goodfellow P, Lovell-Badge R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Eukaryotic Molecular Genetics, MRC National Institute for
Medical Research, Mill Hill, London, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jul 19;346(6281):216-7.

A gene mapping to the sex-determining region of the mouse Y chromosome is deleted
in a line of XY female mice mutant for Tdy, and is expressed at a stage during
male gonadal development consistent with its having a role in testis
determination. This gene is a member of a new family of at least five mouse
genes, related by an amino-acid motif showing homology to other known or putative
DNA-binding domains.

DOI: 10.1038/346245a0 
PMID: 2374589  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Nature. 1990 Jul 19;346(6281):291-4.

Striking conservation of TFIID in Schizosaccharomyces pombe and Saccharomyces
cerevisiae.

Fikes JD(1), Becker DM, Winston F, Guarente L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 02139.

Eukaryotic promoters contain binding sites for basic transcription factors and
gene-specific activator proteins. The transcription factors interact at the TATA 
box, which lies close to the position of transcription initiation. Activators
typically bind to distant sites that can lie kilobases away from the initiation
site. The factor TFIID binds specifically to the TATA box to initiate an ordered 
pathway of assembly of the basic transcription factors. Biochemical analyses have
shown that human and Saccharomyces cerevisiae TFIID are functionally
interchangeable in vitro. To study further the functional conservation of this
critical factor, we are surveying proteins from divergent organisms that can
substitute in vivo for the S. cerevisiae TFIID. We report here the isolation of a
unique gene from Schizosaccharomyces pombe that fully complements a null mutation
in SPT15, the gene that encodes TFIID in S. cerevisiae. The Schiz. pombe gene
encodes a protein 93% identical (166/178) to S. cerevisiae TFIID in a region
consisting of a direct repeat.

DOI: 10.1038/346291a0 
PMID: 2197558  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Nature. 1990 Jul 19;346(6281):287-91.

cis-trans recognition and subunit-specific degradation of short-lived proteins.

Johnson ES(1), Gonda DK, Varshavsky A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 02139.

The N-end rule, a code that relates the metabolic stability of a protein to the
identity of its amino-terminal residue, is universal in that different versions
of the N-end rule operate in mammals, yeast and bacteria (unpublished data). The 
N-end rule-based degradation signal comprises a destabilizing amino-terminal
residue and a specific internal lysine residue. We now show that, in a
multisubunit protein, these two determinants can be located on different subunits
and still target the protein for destruction. Moreover, in this case (trans
recognition) only the subunit that bears the lysine determinant is actually
degraded. Thus an oligomeric protein can contain both short-lived and long-lived 
subunits. These insights have functional and practical implications.

DOI: 10.1038/346287a0 
PMID: 2165217  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Nature. 1990 Jul 19;346(6281):279-81.

Additional deletion in sex-determining region of human Y chromosome resolves
paradox of X,t(Y;22) female.

Page DC(1), Fisher EM, McGillivray B, Brown LG.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jul 19;346(6281):216-7.

Whether a human embryo develops as a male or a female is determined by the
presence of the Y chromosome. The sex-determining function lies entirely in
interval 1A, inasmuch as most XX individuals with descended testes and normal
male external genitalia carry this small region of the Y chromosome. We have
localized an essential part of the sex-determining function to a portion of
interval 1A, on the basis of the discovery of a female with a reciprocal Y;22
translocation and part of 1A deleted at the translocation breakpoint. Recently, a
paradox has arisen with the report of four partially masculinized XX individuals 
who carry only a portion of interval 1A--a portion that does not overlap the
deletion in the X,t(Y;22) female. These recent findings imply that the
sex-determining function lies in the portion of 1A present in the four XX
intersexes and not in the portion deleted in the X,t(Y;22) female. To explain the
X,t(Y;22) individual, it was proposed that she was female because of a
chromosomal position effect or delayed development of the gonadal soma. Here we
report that the X,t(Y;22) female has a deletion of a second portion of interval
1A--a portion corresponding closely to that present in the XX intersexes. This
resolves the apparent contradiction. Nonetheless, phenotype-genotype correlations
suggest that two or more genetic elements in interval 1A may contribute to the
sex-determining function of the Y chromosome. The X,t(Y;22) female lacks the ZFY 
gene but does not exhibit the complex phenotype known as Turner's syndrome,
arguing against the hypothesis that ZFY is the Turner's syndrome gene on the Y
chromosome.

DOI: 10.1038/346279a0 
PMID: 1973823  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Nature. 1990 Jul 19;346(6281):271-4.

Recovery from autoimmunity of MRL/lpr mice after infection with an
interleukin-2/vaccinia recombinant virus.

Gutierrez-Ramos JC(1), Andreu JL, Revilla Y, Viñuela E, Martinez C.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Biologia Molecular del CSIC, Universidad Autonoma de Madrid, Spain.

Interleukin-2 (IL-2) is a T-cell derived molecule implicated in the clonal
expansion of antigen-activated T cells and in T-cell development. IL-2 is also
implicated in autoimmune disease, although its role is still controversial.
Murine systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a good model for human SLE as most
of the immunological abnormalities in the human disease also seem to be operative
in the mouse. Among SLE mice, the MRL/lpr strain develops early in life
autoimmune diseases such as immune complex-mediated glomerulonephritis, arthritis
and arteritis. Lymphoid abnormalities associated with those diseases in this
strain are thymic atrophy and abnormal proliferation of CD3+ CD4- CD8-
'double-negative' T cells, resulting in massive generalized lymph node
enlargement. We have therefore now examined the effects of IL-2 on the disease
progression in MRL/lpr mice using live vaccinia recombinant viruses expressing
the human IL-2 gene. Vaccinated mice showed prolonged survival, decreased
autoantibody and rheumatoid factor titres, marked attenuation of kidney
interstitial infiltration and intraglomerular proliferation, as well as clearance
of synovial mononuclear infiltrates. Inoculation with the IL-2/vaccinia
recombinant virus led, in addition, to drastic reduction of the double-negative
T-cell population, improved thymic differentiation and restoration of normal
values of mature cells in peripheral lymphoid organs.

DOI: 10.1038/346271a0 
PMID: 1973822  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Nature. 1990 Jul 19;346(6281):269-71.

Suppression by glutamate of cGMP-activated conductance in retinal bipolar cells.

Nawy S(1), Jahr CE.

Author information: 
(1)Vollum Institute, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland 97201.

Depolarizing bipolar cells (DBCs) of the retina are the only neurons in the
vertebrate central nervous system known to be hyperpolarized by the
neurotransmitter glutamate. Both glutamate and its analogue
L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate (APB) hyperpolarize DBCs by decreasing membrane
conductance. Furthermore, glutamate responses in DBCs slowly decrease during
whole-cell recording, suggesting that the response involves a second messenger
system. Here we report that intracellular cyclic GMP or GTP activates a membrane 
conductance that is suppressed by APB, resulting in an enhanced APB response. In 
the presence of GTP-gamma-S, APB causes an irreversible suppression of the
conductance. Inhibitors of G-protein activation or phosphodiesterase activity
decrease the APB response. Thus, the DBC glutamate receptor seems to close ion
channels by increasing the rate of cGMP hydrolysis by a G protein-mediated
process that is strikingly similar to light transduction in photoreceptors.

DOI: 10.1038/346269a0 
PMID: 1695713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Nature. 1990 Jul 19;346(6281):240-4.

A gene from the human sex-determining region encodes a protein with homology to a
conserved DNA-binding motif.

Sinclair AH(1), Berta P, Palmer MS, Hawkins JR, Griffiths BL, Smith MJ, Foster
JW, Frischauf AM, Lovell-Badge R, Goodfellow PN.

Author information: 
(1)Human Molecular Genetics Laboratory, Imperial Cancer Research Fund, Lincoln's 
Inn Fields, London, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jul 19;346(6281):216-7.

A search of a 35-kilobase region of the human Y chromosome necessary for male sex
determination has resulted in the identification of a new gene. This gene is
conserved and Y-specific among a wide range of mammals, and encodes a
testis-specific transcript. It shares homology with the mating-type protein, Mc, 
from the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe and a conserved DNA-binding
motif present in the nuclear high-mobility-group proteins HMG1 and HMG2. This
gene has been termed SRY (for sex-determining region Y) and proposed to be a
candidate for the elusive testis-determining gene, TDF.

DOI: 10.1038/346240a0 
PMID: 1695712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Nature. 1990 Jul 12;346(6280):199-202.

RNA-polymerase specificity of transcription of Arabidopsis U snRNA genes
determined by promoter element spacing.

Waibel F(1), Filipowicz W.

Author information: 
(1)Friedrich Miescher-Institut, Basel, Switzerland.

Although most eukaryotic genes known to be transcribed by RNA polymerase III have
intragenic promoter elements, some are similar to genes transcribed by RNA
polymerase II in that they have upstream promoters (reviewed in refs 1-4).
Transcription of the vertebrate U6 and 7SK RNA genes by RNA polymerase III
depends exclusively upon upstream signals, some of which are indistinguishable
from the elements essential for polymerase II-specific genes. In the plant
Arabidopsis thaliana the promoter elements for the U6 and U2 small nuclear RNA
genes, transcribed by RNA polymerases III and II respectively, are identical,
comprising a -30 TATA box and an upstream element specific for small nuclear RNA 
genes. The distance between these elements differs, however. Here we report
evidence that this separation is crucial in determining whether the genes are
transcribed by polymerase II or III.

DOI: 10.1038/346199a0 
PMID: 2366873  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Nature. 1990 Jul 12;346(6280):174-7.

Cortical microstimulation influences perceptual judgements of motion direction.

Salzman CD(1), Britten KH, Newsome WT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Stanford University School of Medicine, California
94305.

Erratum in
    Nature 1990 Aug 9;346(6284):589.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jul 12;346(6280):106.

Neurons in the visual cortex respond selectively to perceptually salient features
of the visual scene, such as the direction and speed of moving objects, the
orientation of local contours, or the colour or relative depth of a visual
pattern. It is commonly assumed that the brain constructs its percept of the
visual scene from information encoded in the selective responses of such neurons.
We have now tested this hypothesis directly by measuring the effect on
psychophysical performance of modifying the firing rates of physiologically
characterized neurons. We required rhesus monkeys to report the direction of
motion in a visual display while we electrically stimulated clusters of
directionally selective neurons in the middle temporal visual area (MT, or V5),
an extrastriate area that plays a prominent role in the analysis of visual motion
information. Microstimulation biased the animals' judgements towards the
direction of motion encoded by the stimulated neurons. This result indicates that
physiological properties measured at the neuronal level can be causally related
to a specific aspect of perceptual performance.

DOI: 10.1038/346174a0 
PMID: 2366872  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Nature. 1990 Jul 12;346(6280):181-3.

Role of abortive retroviral infection of neurons in spongiform CNS degeneration.

Sharpe AH(1), Hunter JJ, Chassler P, Jaenisch R.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge 02142.

Retroviruses are involved in several human neurological diseases with varying
pathological features. Whether these diseases are due to a direct effect of the
virus on nervous system cells is unknown. To gain insight into the pathogenesis
of one retroviral neurological disease, we are studying the murine neurotropic
retrovirus, Cas-Br-E, which causes lower motor neuron disease associated with
spongiform degenerative changes in brain and spinal cord. Central nervous system 
(CNS) injury seems to be due to direct viral action, but the precise target cells
of the virus are uncertain. After blood-borne virus enters the CNS it is found in
capillary endothelial cells. No microscopic evidence for virus within glia or
neurons has been found in some studies, whereas virus or incomplete particles
have been observed in CNS cells in other studies. Here we identify the neuron as 
a major target for Cas-Br-E in the CNS, suggesting that this disease may be a
direct result of viral infection of neurons. We also show that envelope protein
(Env, encoded by the env gene), a major determinant of neurovirulence, cannot be 
detected in neurons but is present in non-neuronal cells, although spliced env
messenger RNA is synthesized in CNS tissue. This suggests that a
post-transcriptional step in Cas-Br-E Env protein synthesis is impaired and that 
the neurological disease may be a consequence of abortive replication of virus in
neurons. This may explain the failure to find neuronal infection in other
neurological diseases by conventional methods of virus detection.

DOI: 10.1038/346181a0 
PMID: 2195355  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Nature. 1990 Jul 12;346(6280):197-9.

Analysis of gain-of-function mutations of the lin-12 gene of Caenorhabditis
elegans.

Greenwald I(1), Seydoux G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Princeton University, New Jersey 08540.

Certain cell fate decisions are specified by cell-cell interactions during the
development of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. For example, in a wild-type
hermaphrodite gonad, two cells, Z1.ppp and Z4.aaa, have the potential to become
the anchor cell (AC). Intercellular communication establishes their fates and
ensures that only one cell becomes the AC, while the other becomes a ventral
uterine precursor cell (VU). One component of this intercellular communication
seems to be the 'AC-to-VU' signal from the presumptive AC that causes the other
cell to become a VU. Genetic and developmental studies indicated that the lin-12 
gene specifies the fates of Z1.ppp and Z4.aaa. Molecular studies suggest that
lin-12 directly participates in their communications, perhaps acting as the
receptor for the 'AC-to-VU' signal. Here, we report the molecular lesions
associated with lin-12 gain-of-function mutations, cell isolation experiments,
and genetic studies of an unusual lin-12 allele. These data suggest that
self-association of the putative lin-12-encoded receptor leads to its activation,
and that certain gain-of-function mutations result in ligand-independent
activation.

DOI: 10.1038/346197a0 
PMID: 2164160  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Nature. 1990 Jul 12;346(6280):194-7.

The candidate Wilms' tumour gene is involved in genitourinary development.

Pritchard-Jones K(1), Fleming S, Davidson D, Bickmore W, Porteous D, Gosden C,
Bard J, Buckler A, Pelletier J, Housman D, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Genetics Unit, Western General Hospital,
Edinburgh, UK.

Wilms' tumour is an embryonic kidney tumour thought to arise through aberrant
mesenchymal stem cell differentiation and to result from loss of function of a
'tumour suppressor' gene(s). Both sporadic and syndrome-associated Wilms' tumours
are accompanied by an increased frequency of abnormalities of the urinary tract
and genitalia. Deletional analysis of individuals with the WAGR syndrome (for,
Wilms' tumour, aniridia, genitourinary abnormalities and mental retardation)
showed that a Wilms' tumour gene lies at chromosomal position 11p13. This led to 
the isolation of a candidate Wilms' tumour gene, encoding a zinc-finger protein
which is likely to be a transcription factor. To gain insight into the role of
this candidate gene in normal development and tumorigenesis, we have now
performed in situ messenger RNA hybridization on sections of human embryos and
Wilms' tumours. The candidate Wilms' tumour gene is expressed specifically in the
condensed mesenchyme, renal vesicle and glomerular epithelium of the developing
kidney, in the related mesonephric glomeruli and in cells approximating these
structures in tumours. The other main sites of expression are the genital ridge, 
fetal gonad and mesothelium. These data suggest that (1) this candidate is indeed
a Wilms' tumour gene, (2) the associated genital abnormalities are pleiotropic
effects of mutation in the Wilms' tumour gene itself, in support of recent
genetic analysis, and (3) this gene has a specific role in kidney development and
a wider role in mesenchymal-epithelial transitions.

DOI: 10.1038/346194a0 
PMID: 2164159  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Nature. 1990 Jul 12;346(6280):177-80.

Presynaptic enhancement shown by whole-cell recordings of long-term potentiation 
in hippocampal slices.

Malinow R(1), Tsien RW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, Beckman Center, Stanford
University Medical Center, California 94305.

Comment in
    Nature. 1991 Mar 28;350(6316):282.

Long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission in the hippocampus is a
widely studied model system for understanding the cellular mechanisms of memory. 
In region CA1, LTP is triggered postsynaptically by Ca2(+)-dependent activation
of protein kinases, but the locus of persistent modification remains
controversial. Statistical analysis of synaptic variability has been proposed as 
a means of settling this debate, although a major obstacle has been the poor
signal-to-noise ratio of conventional intracellular recordings. We have applied
the whole-cell voltage clamp technique to study synaptic transmission in
conventional hippocampal slices (compare refs 28-30). Here we report that robust 
LTP can be recorded with much improved signal resolution and biochemical access
to the postsynaptic cell. Prolonged dialysis of the postsynaptic cell blocks the 
triggering of LTP, with no effect on expression of LTP. The improved signal
resolution unmasks a large trial-to-trial variability, reflecting the
probabilistic nature of transmitter release. Changes in the synaptic variability,
and a decrease in the proportion of synaptic failures during LTP, suggest that
transmitter release is significantly enhanced.

DOI: 10.1038/346177a0 
PMID: 2164158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Nature. 1990 Jul 12;346(6280):147-52.

Evidence for interaction of different eukaryotic transcriptional activators with 
distinct cellular targets.

Martin KJ(1), Lillie JW, Green MR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138.

The adenovirus E1a protein (E1a), a potent transcription activator, contains a
transcriptional activating region. Compared with previously described cellular
and viral activators, E1a's activating region has unusual structural properties. 
It seems that E1a's activating region interacts with a cellular target not
required for the function of transcriptional activators with 'acidic' activating 
regions. By contrast, the target of an acidic activating region is required both 
by acidic activators and by E1a. It is proposed that the cellular target of E1a's
activating region is an 'adaptor' that allows E1a to interact with the basic
transcriptional machinery.

DOI: 10.1038/346147a0 
PMID: 2142255  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Nature. 1990 Jul 12;346(6280):191-3.

The c-ets proto-oncogenes encode transcription factors that cooperate with c-Fos 
and c-Jun for transcriptional activation.

Wasylyk B(1), Wasylyk C, Flores P, Begue A, Leprince D, Stehelin D.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Génétique Moléculaire des Eucaryotés du CNRS, Strasbourg,
France.

Cell transformation by oncogenes leads to changes in gene expression. A key event
in this process seems to be activation of the transcription factors AP-1 and PEA 
3. Their synergistic activities are required for efficient activation of
transcription from different promoters by many different oncogenes, serum growth 
factors and the tumour promoter TPA. We show here that the products of the ets-1 
and -2 proto-oncogenes, whose biological function was previously unknown, are
transcription factors that activate transcription through the PEA 3 motif. The
p68c-ets-1 protein specifically binds to DNA and contains a transcriptional
activation domain. The ets-like gene family therefore seems to encode a new
family of transcription factors, apparently unrelated to other transcription
factors. The p68c-ets-1 protein cooperates with c-Fos and c-Jun (components of
AP-1) for activation of transcription from the oncogene-responsive domain of the 
polyoma enhancer, indicating that combined activity of all three oncoproteins
could be involved in the response of cells to growth stimuli.

DOI: 10.1038/346191a0 
PMID: 2114554  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Nature. 1990 Jul 12;346(6280):189-91.

Small G proteins are expressed ubiquitously in lymphoid cells and do not
correspond to Bcl-2.

Monica K(1), Chen-Levy Z, Cleary ML.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Stanford University Medical Center, California 94305.

The bcl-2 gene is consistently associated with t(14; 18) chromosomal
translocations observed in a large fraction of human B-cell lymphomas. The t(14; 
18) translocation results in deregulated expression of the bcl-2 gene and
synthesis of inappropriately high levels of the Bcl-2 protein. Gene transfer
studies suggest a role for Bcl-2 in cell survival, growth enhancement and
oncogenic transformation. To test the suggestion that GTP-binding by Bcl-2 may
mediate its biological effects we characterized the GTP-binding proteins in
lymphoid cells expressing Bcl-2. Expression of several small GTP-binding proteins
was found to be ubiquitous and did not vary with levels of Bcl-2. By using
immunological, electrophoretic and cell-fractionation techniques, we separated
Bcl-2 from G proteins of small relative molecular mass (Mr) and showed that it is
incapable of binding GTP. Our results show that small Mr G proteins are widely
expressed in lymphoid cells and that Bcl-2 is not a novel member of this
GTP-binding protein family.

DOI: 10.1038/346189a0 
PMID: 2114553  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Nature. 1990 Jul 12;346(6280):187-9.

Activated CD8 binding to class I protein mediated by the T-cell receptor results 
in signalling.

O'Rourke AM(1), Rogers J, Mescher MF.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Membrane Biology, Medical Biology Institute, La Jolla, California 
92037.

The CD8 glycoprotein of T cells bind nonpolymorphic regions of class I major
histocompatibility complex proteins on target cells and these interactions
promote antigen recognition and signalling by the T-cell receptor. Studies using 
artificial membranes indicated that effective CD8/class I interaction is critical
for response by alloantigen-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes when class I protein
is the only ligand on the antigen-bearing surface. But significant CD8-mediated
binding of cytotoxic T lymphocytes to non-antigenic class I protein could not be 
detected in the absence of the alloantigen. These apparently contradictory
findings indicate that CD8 binding to class I protein might be activated through 
the T-cell receptor and the results reported here demonstrate that this is the
case. Treatment of cytotoxic T lymphocytes with soluble anti-T-cell receptor
antibody activates adhesion of the cytotoxic T lymphocytes to class I, but not
class II proteins. The specificity of this binding implies that it is mediated by
CD8 and blocking by anti-CD8 antibodies confirmed this. Furthermore, binding of
CD8 to class I protein resulted in generation of an additional signal(s)
necessary to initiate response at low T-cell receptor occupancy levels.

DOI: 10.1038/346187a0 
PMID: 2114552  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Nature. 1990 Jul 12;346(6280):183-7.

T-cell recognition of an immunodominant myelin basic protein epitope in multiple 
sclerosis.

Ota K(1), Matsui M, Milford EL, Mackin GA, Weiner HL, Hafler DA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

Multiple sclerosis is thought to be an autoimmune disease of the central nervous 
system mediated by T cells specific for a myelin antigen. Myelin basic protein
has been studied as a potential autoantigen in the disease because of its role as
an encephalitogen in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis and post-viral
encephalomyelitis and because of the presence in the blood of multiple sclerosis 
patients of in vivo-activated T cells reactive to myelin basic protein. Immune
involvement in multiple sclerosis has been further suggested by the association
with the major histocompatibility complex class II phenotype DR2, DQw1. To define
the T-cell specificity toward myelin basic protein, 15,824 short-term T-cell
lines were established from multiple sclerosis subjects, subjects with other
neurological diseases, and normal controls. Here we report a higher frequency of 
T-cell lines reactive with a DR2-associated region of myelin basic protein
between residues 84-102 in patients with multiple sclerosis compared with
controls. A second region, identified between residues 143-168, was recognized
equally in multiple sclerosis patients and controls and was associated with the
DRw11 phenotype. These DR2 and DRw11 associations were also observed among T-cell
lines generated from family members of a multiple sclerosis patient. The
immunodominant 84-102 peptide from myelin basic protein was both DR2- and
DQw1-restricted among different T-cell lines. These results raise the possibility
that this immunodominant region may be encephalitogenic in some DR2+ individuals.

DOI: 10.1038/346183a0 
PMID: 1694970  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Nature. 1990 Jul 5;346(6279):81-4.

Proximity to the promoter inhibits recognition of cauliflower mosaic virus
polyadenylation signal.

Sanfaçon H(1), Hohn T.

Author information: 
(1)Friedrich Miescher Institut, Basel, Switzerland.

The replication of retroviruses and pararetroviruses (such as caulimo- and
hepadnaviruses) involves the production of terminally redundant genomic-length
RNA. The sequence repeated at both ends of the RNA (the R region) contains a
polyadenylation signal, and for production of full-length RNA the version of this
at the 5' end of the template must be bypassed by RNA polymerase, but the version
at the 3' end must be recognized. This implies that the position of the
polyadenylation signal determines its efficiency, and we report here experiments 
aimed at investigating the basis of this phenomenon. Our results with cauliflower
mosaic virus suggest that proximity to the transcription initiation site inhibits
messenger RNA 3'-end processing directed by polyadenylation signals.

DOI: 10.1038/346081a0 
PMID: 2366867  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Nature. 1990 Jul 5;346(6279):74-6.

Development of venous occlusions in mice transgenic for the plasminogen activator
inhibitor-1 gene.

Erickson LA(1), Fici GJ, Lund JE, Boyle TP, Polites HG, Marotti KR.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Diseases, Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo, Michigan 49001.

The fibrinolytic potential of the vasculature is modulated primarily by the
availability and activity of plasminogen activators, which convert the zymogen
plasminogen into the active fibrin-degrading enzyme plasmin. The activities of
these key regulatory enzymes are directly neutralized by their primary endogenous
inhibitor, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1). Although some individuals
with a tendency to develop thrombotic disorders exhibit elevated levels of PAI-1 
in their plasma, the cause-and-effect relationship between increased PAI-1 and
thrombosis is still unclear. Specifically, it is not known whether chronic
depression of fibrinolytic activity results in the development of thrombosis. To 
address this question we developed transgenic mice in which the contribution of
PAI-1 to thrombus formation could be evaluated. The results presented in this
report indicate that elevated levels of PAI-1 contribute to the development of
venous but not arterial occlusions.

DOI: 10.1038/346074a0 
PMID: 2366866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Nature. 1990 Jul 5;346(6279):69-71.

Hyperpolarization and relaxation of arterial smooth muscle caused by nitric oxide
derived from the endothelium.

Tare M(1), Parkington HC, Coleman HA, Neild TO, Dusting GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.

Stimulation of the endothelial lining of arteries with acetylcholine results in
the release of a diffusible substance that relaxes and hyperpolarizes the
underlying smooth muscle. Nitric oxide (NO) has been a candidate for this
substance, termed endothelium-derived relaxing factor. But there are several
observations that argue against the involvement of NO in acetylcholine-induced
hyperpolarization. First, exogenous NO has no effect on the membrane potential of
canine mesenteric arteries. Second, although haemoglobin (believed to bind and
inactivate NO (refs 11-15)) and methylene blue (which prevents the stimulation of
guanylate cyclase) inhibit relaxation, neither has an effect on
hyperpolarization. Finally, nitroprusside, thought to generate NO in vascular
smooth muscle, relaxes rat aorta without increasing rubidium efflux.
Nevertheless, nitrovasodilators, nitroprusside and nitroglycerin cause
hyperpolarization in some arteries. NO might therefore be responsible for at
least part of the hyperpolarization induced by acetylcholine. We now report that 
hyperpolarization and relaxation evoked by acetylcholine are reduced by
NG-monomethyl-L-arginine, an inhibitor of NO biosynthesis from L-arginine. Thus
NO derived from the endothelium can cause hyperpolarization of vascular smooth
muscle, which might also contribute to relaxation by closing voltage-dependent
calcium channels. Our findings raise the possibility that hyperpolarization might
be a component of NO signal transduction in neurons or inflammatory cells.

DOI: 10.1038/346069a0 
PMID: 2366864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Nature. 1990 Jul 5;346(6279):63-6.

Inhibition by brefeldin A of presentation of exogenous protein antigens to MHC
class II-restricted T cells.

Adorini L(1), Ullrich SJ, Appella E, Fuchs S.

Author information: 
(1)Preclinical Research, Sandoz Pharma Ltd., Basel, Switzerland.

Peptides bound to class I or class II major histocompatibility complex
(MHC)-encoded molecules are ligands for the antigen-specific T-cell receptor of
T-cells carrying the CD8 and CD4 antigens, respectively. MHC class I-restricted T
cells generally recognize peptides derived from processing of endogenously
synthesized cellular antigens, whereas class II-restricted T cells usually
recognize peptides derived from exogenous antigens entering antigen presenting
cells. Accordingly, two separate pathways of antigen processing and presentation 
have been proposed. The fungal metabolite brefeldin A (BFA), an inhibitor of
protein transport from the endoplasmic reticulum, inhibits presentation of
endogenous antigens for MHC-restricted T-cell recognition. The selectivity of BFA
activity has been inferred to reflect presentation of a given antigen processed
through the cytosolic or the endocytic route. Here we show that BFA also greatly 
inhibits the presentation of exogenous protein antigens by MHC class II molecules
to T cells, indicating a broader effect of this drug on antigen presentation and 
an additional similarity between the two processing pathways. As cycloheximide, a
protein synthesis inhibitor, also inhibits presentation of protein antigens to
class II-restricted T cells, the data indicate that peptides generated by
processing of exogenous proteins binds to newly synthesized class II molecules
for presentation to T cells.

DOI: 10.1038/346063a0 
PMID: 2366863  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Nature. 1990 Jul 5;346(6279):79-81.

Rapid evolution in response to high-temperature selection.

Bennett AF(1), Dao KM, Lenski RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California,
Irvine 92717.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jul 5;346(6279):15-6.

Temperature is an important environmental factor affecting all organisms, and
there is ample evidence from comparative physiology that species and even
conspecific populations can adapt genetically to different temperature regimes.
But the effect of these adaptations on fitness and the rapidity of their
evolution is unknown, as is the extent to which they depend on pre-existing
genetic variation rather than new mutations. We have begun a study of the
evolutionary adaptation of Escherichia coli to different temperature regimes,
taking advantage of the large population sizes and short generation times in
experiments on this bacterial species. We report significant improvement in
temperature-specific fitness of lines maintained at 42 degrees C for 200
generations (about one month). These changes in fitness are due to selection on
de novo mutations and show that some biological systems can evolve rapidly in
response to changes in environmental factors such as temperature.

DOI: 10.1038/346079a0 
PMID: 2195353  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Nature. 1990 Jul 5;346(6279):84-6.

Identification of a 32K plasma membrane protein that binds to the myristylated
amino-terminal sequence of p60v-src.

Resh MD(1), Ling HP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Lewis Thomas Laboratory, Princeton University, New
Jersey 08544.

The transforming protein of Rous sarcoma virus, p60v-src, is a myristylated
membrane-bound phosphoprotein. Interaction of p60v-src with the plasma membrane
is essential for transforming activity, and is mediated by association with a
membrane-bound Src receptor protein. Evidence for the existence of an Src
receptor is based on the ability of a myristylated peptide containing the
N-terminal Src sequence to inhibit binding of p60v-src to plasma membranes in
vitro: binding of p60v-src to a plasma membrane receptor is therefore mediated by
N-terminal Src sequences. Here we report that a myristyl-Src peptide, but not the
corresponding non-myristylated peptide, can be specifically crosslinked to a
plasma membrane protein of relative molecular mass 32,000 (Mr32K). The 32K
protein represents an Src-binding protein in the plasma membrane that is likely
to be a component of the myristyl-Src receptor, and which could be involved in
cellular transformation.

DOI: 10.1038/346084a0 
PMID: 2164157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Nature. 1990 Jul 5;346(6279):71-4.

Subsecond deactivation of transducin by endogenous GTP hydrolysis.

Vuong TM(1), Chabre M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Biophysique Moléculaire et Cellulaire, (Unité Associée 520 du
CNRS) Centre d'études Nucléaires de Grenoble, France.

The response of a retinal rod cell to a weak flash of light is mediated by a
receptor/GTP-binding protein (rhodopsin/transducin) signal transduction system
and terminates within a second. The T alpha subunit of transducin (composed of
subunits T alpha, T beta and T gamma) is triggered by photoexcited rhodopsin (R*)
to release GDP and bind GTP. The binding of GTP causes release of the T alpha
unit from T beta gamma and allows it to modulate the activity of an enzyme that
generates a second messenger. Termination of the response requires the hydrolysis
of the GTP by intrinsic GTPase. As with other G proteins, the GTPase activity of 
transducin seems to be slow. Reported in vitro turnover rates of a few molecules 
of GTP hydrolysed per molecule of transducin per minute imply a T alpha-GTP
deactivation time of many seconds. But this time might be only a small fraction
of that of the GTPase cycle. We have now used time-resolved microcalorimetry in
bovine rod outer segments (ROS) to monitor the heat release due to the hydrolysis
of GTP by a transducin population that had been quickly activated by flash
illumination of rhodopsin. The enthalpy of GTP hydrolysis is released within 1 s 
at 23 degrees C. This deactivation time seems to be independent of any diffusible
factor in the preparation and concurs with the termination kinetics of the rod's 
response. Thereafter, transducin seems unable to reload GTP for many seconds.
This refractory 'resetting' time may account for the low steady-state GTPase
rates in vitro.

DOI: 10.1038/346071a0 
PMID: 2164156  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Nature. 1990 Jul 5;346(6279):66-8.

Tyrosine phosphatase CD45 is essential for coupling T-cell antigen receptor to
the phosphatidyl inositol pathway.

Koretzky GA(1), Picus J, Thomas ML, Weiss A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco 94143.

Stimulation of T lymphocytes through their antigen receptor (T-cell receptor;
TCR) results in the activation of a tyrosine kinase and the generation of
phosphatidyl inositol (PtdIns)-derived second messengers. Several reports have
indicated that CD45, a haematopoietic cell-specific surface glycoprotein with
tyrosine phosphatase activity in its cytoplasmic domain, is important in
lymphocyte activation. To examine the possibility that CD45 might influence
proximal signal transduction events through the TCR, we have isolated a variant
of the human T-cell leukaemic line, HPB-ALL, which fails to express this
phosphatase. Unlike cells expressing CD45, stimulation of the TCR in the
CD45-negative cell does not result in PtdIns-derived second messengers.
Reconstitution of CD45 expression restored early signalling events through the
TCR. To localize the site of CD45 action, the human muscarinic type 1 receptor,
which also activates the PtdIns second messenger pathway, was transfected into
the CD45-negative cell. Although stimulation of the TCR failed to generate
PtdIns-derived second messengers, there was normal activity of the PtdIns pathway
when human muscarinic receptor type 1 was stimulated, despite the absence of
CD45. These data indicate that CD45 influences a cellular component that is
essential for effective coupling of the TCR to the PtdIns second messenger
pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/346066a0 
PMID: 2164155  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Nature. 1990 Jul 5;346(6279):76-9.

Drosophila Krüppel protein is a transcriptional repressor.

Licht JD(1), Grossel MJ, Figge J, Hansen UM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Eukaryotic Transcription, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02115.

Krüppel (Kr), one of the zygotically active Drosophila segmentation genes, is
expressed in a restricted domain during the blastoderm stage of embryogenesis and
is involved in the control of development of the thoracic and abdominal segments 
of the fly. Kr encodes a polypeptide containing DNA-binding zinc-finger motifs,
disruptions of which yield Kr mutants. We have assayed the transcriptional
activities of wild-type Kr protein as well as Lac repressor/Kr fusion proteins in
HeLa and CV-1 cells. Wild-type Kr and a Lac-Kr chimaeric protein repressed
transcription from reporter promoters in which a consensus Kr binding site
derived from sequences within the even-skipped promoter had been inserted in an
upstream position. We mapped the repression function of Kr to an alanine-rich
amino-terminal region of the protein, as a Lac/Kr fusion protein containing only 
amino acids 26-110 of Kr repressed transcription from a reporter promoter
containing upstream lac operators. This demonstrates that the DNA-binding and
repression activities of the Kr protein are distinct. These data are consistent
with genetic evidence that Kr represses even-skipped and hunchback expression,
and suggest that Kr is a negative regulator of transcription in Drosophila.

DOI: 10.1038/346076a0 
PMID: 2114551  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Nature. 1990 Jul 5;346(6279):60-3.

Evolution of the MHC class I genes of a New World primate from ancestral
homologues of human non-classical genes.

Watkins DI(1), Chen ZW, Hughes AL, Evans MG, Tedder TF, Letvin NL.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, New England Regional Primate Research Center,
Southborough, Massachusetts 01772.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jul 5;346(6279):17.

The products of the classical human major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class 
I genes (HLA-A, -B, -C) are highly polymorphic molecules that bind peptides and
present them to T lymphocytes. The non-polymorphic, non-classical MHC class I
gene products (HLA-E, -F, -G) are not restricting elements for the majority of T 
lymphocytes. The evolutionary relationship of the non-classical and classical MHC
class I genes is unclear. Here we present the cloning and sequencing of the MHC
class I genes of a New World primate, the cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus oedipus). 
The expressed MHC class I genes of this species are more closely related to the
human non-classical HLA-G gene than they are to genes of the human classical
HLA-A, -B, and -C loci. These observations imply that classical and non-classical
genes do not necessarily constitute mutually exclusive groups over evolutionary
time.

DOI: 10.1038/346060a0 
PMID: 2114550  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Nature. 1990 Jul 5;346(6279):35-9.

The protein encoded by the Arabidopsis homeotic gene agamous resembles
transcription factors.

Yanofsky MF(1), Ma H, Bowman JL, Drews GN, Feldmann KA, Meyerowitz EM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology 156-29, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena
91125.

Mutations in the homeotic gene agamous of the plant Arabidopsis cause the
transformation of the floral sex organs. Cloning and sequence analysis of agamous
suggest that it encodes a protein with a high degree of sequence similarity to
the DNA-binding region of transcription factors from yeast and humans and to the 
product of a homeotic gene from Antirrhinum. The agamous gene therefore probably 
encodes a transcription factor that regulates genes determining stamen and carpel
development in wild-type flowers.

DOI: 10.1038/346035a0 
PMID: 1973265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Nature. 1990 Jun 28;345(6278):836-8.

Formation of a stable triplex from a single DNA strand.

Sklenár V(1), Feigon J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, Los
Angeles 90024.

Homopurine.homopyrimidine DNA sequences have been shown to form triple-stranded
structures readily under appropriate conditions. Interest in DNA triplexes arises
from potential applications of intermolecular triplexes as antisense inhibitors
of gene expression and from the possibility that intramolecular triplexes may
have a role in gene expression and recombination. We recently presented NMR
evidence for triplex formation from the DNA oligonucleotides d(GA)4 and d(TC)4,
which showed unambiguously that the second pyrimidine strand is Hoogsteen base
paired and the cytosines are protonated at N3 as required. To obtain a more well 
defined triplex, and to provide a model for in vivo triplex structures, we have
designed and synthesized a 28-base DNA oligomer with a sequence that could
potentially fold to form a triplex containing both T.A.T and C+.G.C triplets. Our
NMR results indicate that the conformation at pH 5.5 is an intramolecular triplex
and that a significant amount of triplex remains even at pH 8.0.

DOI: 10.1038/345836a0 
PMID: 2359461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Nature. 1990 Jun 28;345(6278):833-5.

Nucleation and growth of fibres and gel formation in sickle cell haemoglobin.

Samuel RE(1), Salmon ED, Briehl RW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York 10461.

Deoxygenated sickle haemoglobin polymerizes into long 210-A diameter fibres that 
distort and decrease the deformability of red blood cells, and cause sickle cell 
disease. The fibres consist of seven intertwined double strands. They can form
birefringent nematic liquid crystals (tactoids) and spherulites. Rheologically,
the system behaves as a gel. The equilibria show a phase separation and a
solubility. The reaction kinetics show a delay time, are then roughly exponential
and are highly dependent on concentration and temperature, and accord with the
double nucleation model. But these conclusions are derived from macroscopic data,
without direct observation of individual fibres. We have now used non-invasive
video-enhanced differential interference contrast (DIC) and dark-field microscopy
to observe nucleation, growth and interaction of sickle deoxyhaemoglobin fibres
in real time. The fibres originate both from centres that produce many radially
distributed fibres and on the surface of pre-existing fibres, from which they
then branch. The resulting network is cross-linked and dynamic in that it is
flexible and continues to grow and cross-link. Our results support most aspects
of the double nucleation model.

DOI: 10.1038/345833a0 
PMID: 2359460  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Nature. 1990 Jun 28;345(6278):819-22.

Polarizing activity and retinoid synthesis in the floor plate of the neural tube.

Wagner M(1), Thaller C, Jessell T, Eichele G.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular
Biophysics, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jun 28;345(6278):766-8.

In many developing organisms the establishment of axial polarity and the
patterning of cells depend on local signals that derive from restricted regions
of the embryo. In vertebrate embryos, the origins of tissue polarity have been
examined extensively in the developing limb. The anteroposterior pattern of the
chick limb seems to be controlled by a morphogen, possibly retinoic acid, that is
enriched in a region of the limb known as the zone of polarizing activity (ZPA). 
Certain tissues other than the ZPA have also shown polarizing activity
experimentally in the chick limb, raising the possibility that signalling
molecules involved in pattern formation in different embryonic tissues are
conserved. Here we provide evidence that a similar polarizing activity is also
present in a restricted region of the developing central nervous system (CNS). We
show that a specialized group of neural cells termed the floor plate, but not
other regions of the CNS, mimics the ZPA in respecifying the digit pattern in the
developing chick limb. In addition, using an in vitro biochemical assay, we show 
that the floor plate can synthesize retinoic acid and 3,4-didehydroretinol, the
precursor of a second morphogenetically active retinoid, 3,4-didehydroretinoic
acid. These results show that the floor plate is a local source of a ZPA-like
polarizing signal, possibly a retinoid, which may regulate the pattern of cell
differentiation in the developing CNS.

DOI: 10.1038/345819a0 
PMID: 2359459  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Nature. 1990 Jun 28;345(6278):815-9.

Isolation of 3,4-didehydroretinoic acid, a novel morphogenetic signal in the
chick wing bud.

Thaller C(1), Eichele G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Physiology, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jun 28;345(6278):766-8.

There is increasing evidence that retinoic acid is a morphogen involved in
vertebrate development. This evidence comes in part from studies of the chick
wing bud, in which local application of all-trans-retinoic acid results in a
duplication of the digit pattern along the anteroposterior axis. Retinoic acid
may be only one of several morphogenetic signalling compounds required for limb
pattern formation. To identify novel morphogenetically active compounds,
fractionated extracts of whole chick embryos were tested for their ability to
induce digit pattern duplications. We describe here the isolation of a new
activity present in the limb bud, which we have identified as
all-trans-3,4-didehydroretinoic acid. The 3,4-didehydroretinoic acid is generated
in situ from retinol through a 3,4-didehydroretinol intermediate. We show that
3,4-didehydroretinoic acid and retinoic acid are equipotent in evoking digit
duplications. These findings suggest that there are at least two endogenous
retinoids with morphogenetic properties in the chick limb.

DOI: 10.1038/345815a0 
PMID: 2359458  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


301. Nature. 1990 Jun 28;345(6278):813-5.

Cell proliferation inhibited by MyoD1 independently of myogenic differentiation.

Sorrentino V(1), Pepperkok R, Davis RL, Ansorge W, Philipson L.

Author information: 
(1)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Heidelberg, FRG.

Cell growth and differentiation are usually mutually exclusive. Transformation of
myoblasts by retroviruses containing the myc oncogene inhibits differentiation,
preventing cells from withdrawing from the cell cycle. If cell-cycle withdrawal
is a prerequisite for myoblast differentiation, it is probably an early event in 
terminal cell differentiation, but this has not yet been established. MyoD1
regulates myogenesis. It is expressed only in skeletal muscle, but can convert
other cells to muscle cells. The MyoD1 protein, a nuclear phosphoprotein in part 
similar to the myc family of proteins, is a DNA-binding protein binding to the
enhancer sequences of the muscle-specific creatine phosphokinase gene. Thus,
introduction of MyoD1 into cells provides a simple approach to study the effect
of induction of differentiation on cell growth. In cultured NIH 3T3 cells,
inhibition of cell proliferation occurs within 18 hours, and expression of myosin
starts after 72 hours. Furthermore, injection of MyoD1 into quiescent NIH 3T3
cells inhibit cell proliferation independently of induction of differentiation.
Deletion of the myc-like domain in the MyoD1 gene eliminates the inhibition of
DNA synthesis, but substitution of the basic domain with the analogous domain
from the E12 transcription factor inhibits growth yet fails to induce
differentiation. Inhibition of DNA synthesis, therefore, seems to be controlled
separately from myogenic differentiation.

DOI: 10.1038/345813a0 
PMID: 2359457  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Nature. 1990 Jun 28;345(6278):783-6.

Direct and selective binding of an acidic transcriptional activation domain to
the TATA-box factor TFIID.

Stringer KF(1), Ingles CJ, Greenblatt J.

Author information: 
(1)Banting and Best Department of Medical Research, University of Toronto,
Ontario, Canada.

The potent transactivation domain of the herpes simplex virion protein VP16 was
used as a column ligand for affinity chromatography. VP16 binds strongly and
highly selectively to the human and yeast TATA box-binding factors. Our results
imply that the principal target for acidic activation domains is the TATA-box
factor TFIID.

DOI: 10.1038/345783a0 
PMID: 2193231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Nature. 1990 Jun 28;345(6278):825-9.

Putative protein kinase product of the Drosophila segment-polarity gene
zeste-white3.

Siegfried E(1), Perkins LA, Capaci TM, Perrimon N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115.

The metameric pattern of the Drosophila embryo is regulated by a combination of
maternal and zygotic genes. The segment-polarity class of genes are required for 
the correct patterning within each segmental unit. Mutations in any one of these 
genes results in deletions and duplications of parts of each segment. The
segment-polarity genes act coordinately by means of local cellular interactions
to assign and maintain an identity for each cell in the segment, and to establish
segment boundaries. Here we describe the molecular characterization of a novel
segment-polarity gene, zeste-white3 (zw3). Embryos derived from germ lines that
are homozygous for zw3 mutations (zw3 embryos) have phenotypes similar to embryos
that are mutant for the segment-polarity gene naked (nkd). These embryos lack
most of the ventral denticles, which are differentiated structures derived from
the most anterior region of each segment. We have isolated the zw3 gene and
compared the structure of one maternal and one zygotic transcript encoded by the 
gene. The zw3 gene is unique among the segment-polarity genes so far
characterized, in that it encodes proteins that have homology to serine-threonine
protein kinases. This indicates that zw3 may play a part in a signal transduction
pathway involved in the establishment of cell identity within each embryonic
segment.

DOI: 10.1038/345825a0 
PMID: 2113617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Nature. 1990 Jun 28;345(6278):829-32.

Regulation of the pituitary-specific homeobox gene GHF1 by cell-autonomous and
environmental cues.

McCormick A(1), Brady H, Theill LE, Karin M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, University of California, San 
Diego, La Jolla 92093.

Homeodomain proteins function in determination of mating type in yeast,
segmentation in fruit flies and cell-type specific gene expression in mammals. In
Drosophila, expression of homeobox genes is controlled by cell-autonomous
interactions between regulatory proteins and environmental clues. Similar
controls may operate during mammalian limb development and frog embryogenesis.
But, the exact way in which expression of homeodomain proteins is regulated in
these systems is not clear and requires biochemical analysis of homeobox gene
transcription. We now describe such an analysis of the GHF1 gene, which encodes a
mammalian homeodomain protein specifying expression of the growth hormone (GH)
gene in anterior pituitary somatotrophs. GHF1 is transcribed in a highly
restricted manner and the presence of GHF1 protein is correlated both temporally 
and spatially with activation of the GH gene during pituitary development.
Analysis of the GHF1 promoter indicates that transcription is also controlled by 
cell-autonomous interactions involving positive autoregulation by GHF1, and
environmental cues that modulate the intracellular level of cyclic AMP and
thereby the activity of cAMP response element binding protein (CREB), a
ubiquitous transactivator that binds to the GHF1 promoter.

DOI: 10.1038/345829a0 
PMID: 1972784  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Nature. 1990 Jun 28;345(6278):823-5.

Genetic homogeneity between acute and chronic forms of spinal muscular atrophy.

Gilliam TC(1), Brzustowicz LM, Castilla LH, Lehner T, Penchaszadeh GK, Daniels
RJ, Byth BC, Knowles J, Hislop JE, Shapira Y, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Columbia University, New York, New York.

The childhood-onset spinal muscular atrophies (SMAs) describe a heterogeneous
group of disorders that selectively affect the alpha motoneuron. We have shown
that chronic childhood-onset SMA (SMA II and III) maps to a single locus on
chromosome 5q. Acute SMA (SMA Type I/Werdnig-Hoffmann/severe/infantile) is the
main cause of heritable infant mortality. Mapping the acute SMA locus by
conventional methods is complicated by the rapidly fatal course of the disease
and its recessive mode of inheritance. We present here the typing of four inbred 
acute-SMA families with DNA markers on chromosome 5q and analysis of these
together with acute families from our previous study to demonstrate genetic
homogeneity between the acute and chronic forms of SMA. The data indicate that
the acute SMA locus maps to chromosome 5q11.2-13.3. Two families seem unlinked to
5q markers, raising the possibility of genetic heterogeneity or disease
misclassification within the acute and chronic family sets.

DOI: 10.1038/345823a0 
PMID: 1972783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Nature. 1990 Jun 28;345(6278):807-10.

Postsynaptic NMDA receptor-mediated calcium accumulation in hippocampal CA1
pyramidal cell dendrites.

Regehr WG(1), Tank DW.

Author information: 
(1)Biophysics Research Department, AT&T Bell Laboratories, Murray Hill, New
Jersey 07974.

In the CA1 hippocampal region, intracellular calcium is a putative second
messenger for the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP), a persistent
increase of synaptic transmission produced by high frequency afferent fibre
stimulation. Because LTP in this region is blocked by the NMDA
(N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptor antagonist AP5 (DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric
acid) and the calcium permeability of NMDA receptors is controlled by a
voltage-dependent magnesium block, a model has emerged that suggests that the
calcium permeability of NMDA receptor-coupled ion channels is the biophysical
basis for LTP induction. We have performed microfluorometric measurements in
individual CA1 pyramidal cells during stimulus trains that induce LTP. In
addition to a widespread component of postsynaptic calcium accumulation
previously described, we now report that brief high frequency stimulus trains
produce a transient component spatially localized to dendritic areas near
activated afferents. This localized component is blocked by the NMDA receptor
antagonist AP5. The results directly confirm the calcium rise predicted by NMDA
receptor models of LTP induction.

DOI: 10.1038/345807a0 
PMID: 1972782  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Nature. 1990 Jun 28;345(6278):810-3.

Stimulation of protein tyrosine phosphorylation by the B-lymphocyte antigen
receptor.

Gold MR(1), Law DA, DeFranco AL.

Author information: 
(1)George Williams Hooper Foundation, University of California, San Francisco
94143-0552.

Signalling by membrane immunoglobulin, the B-lymphocyte antigen receptor,
regulates B-cell maturation and activation. Crosslinking of membrane
immunoglobulin by antigen or by anti-immunoglobulin antibodies inactivates
immature B cells, eliminating many of the B cells capable of producing
auto-antibodies. By contrast, crosslinking of membrane immunoglobulin promotes
activation of mature B cells for clonal expansion and antibody production against
foreign antigens. Crosslinking membrane IgM on the immature B-cell line WEHI-231 
induces growth arrest. This response may be analogous to the deletion or
inactivation of immature B cells that is induced by antigen or anti-IgM
antibodies. Membrane immunoglobulin crosslinking stimulates phosphoinositide
hydrolysis, which leads to increases in intracellular calcium and activation of
protein kinase C. The induced phosphoinositide breakdown is important for
inhibiting WEHI-231 growth (ref. 7 and D. Page, M.R.G., K. Fahey, L. Matsuuchi
and A.L.D., manuscript submitted for publication), but may not be sufficient, as 
agents that elevate calcium and activate protein kinase C cause only partial
growth arrest. We now show that in both mature splenic B cells and the immature
B-cell line WEHI-231 crosslinking membrane immunoglobulin also stimulates
phosphorylation of protein tyrosine, a reaction that has been implicated as a key
regulator of cell growth. Most of these phosphorylations were not a consequence
of the phosphoinositide pathway. Thus, tyrosine phosphorylation is a second mode 
of transmembrane signalling by membrane immunoglobulin.

DOI: 10.1038/345810a0 
PMID: 1694265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Nature. 1990 Jun 21;345(6277):710-2.

Model of carbon fixation in microbial mats from 3,500 Myr ago to the present.

Rothschild LJ(1), Mancinelli RL.

Collaborators: Mancinelli RL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Solar System Exploration Branch, NASA-Ames Research Center, Moffett Field,
California 94035, USA.
(2)ARC

Biological carbon fixation is an important part of global carbon cycling and
ecology. Fixation that took place 3,500 million years ago is recorded in the
laminated sedimentary rock structures known as stromatolites, which are
fossilized remains of microbial mat communities. Stromatolites are the most
abundant type of fossil found in the Proterozoic (2,500 to 590 Myr ago), but they
then declined, possibly because of predation and competition. Using modern
microbial mats as analogues for ancient stromatolites, we show that the rate of
carbon fixation is higher at the greater levels of atmospheric CO2 that were
probably present in the past. We suggest that carbon fixation in microbial mats
was not carbon-limited during the early Precambrian, but became carbon-limited as
the supply of inorganic carbon decreased. Carbon limitation led to a lower rate
of carbon fixation, especially towards the end of the Precambrian. Thus, another 
reason for the decline of the stromatolites could have been a decrease in
available CO2.

DOI: 10.1038/345710a0 
PMID: 11536465  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Nature. 1990 Jun 21;345(6277):712-4.

New hominid skull material from the late Miocene of Macedonia in northern Greece.

de Bonis L(1), Bouvrain G, Geraads D, Koufos G.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Paléontologie des Vertébrés et Paléontologie humaine, UA CNRS
720, Université de Poitiers, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jun 21;345(6277):664-5.

Miocene hominoid material is very scarce and has previously only been reported as
cranial fragments in the Old World. Here we describe a new specimen of
Ouranopithecus macedoniensis, which consists of the right part of the face of an 
adult male with a portion of the frontal bone, a portion of the left part of the 
face and the maxilla with complete dentition except the right third molar. The
characters of this specimen are not congruent with those of Sivapithecus and the 
pongids, but are more primitive and plesiomorphic for the recent hominid clade
(Gorilla, Pan and Homo). The dental characters differ morphologically and
metrically from those of the recent great apes and fit better with
Australopithecus afarensis. Ouranopithecus now seems the best candidate
forerunner of the Plio-pleistocene Homininae (Australopithecus and Homo). This
specimen was discovered in September 1989, in the late Miocene deposits of
central Macedonia (G.K., L. de B. and G.B.), and prepared by G.K. in Thessaloniki
and G. Mouchelin in Poitiers. It comes from the new locality of Xirochori in the 
red sandstone of the Nea Messimbria formation. The fossil is the property of the 
University of Thessaloniki, Greece (catalogue number XIR-1).

DOI: 10.1038/345712a0 
PMID: 2193230  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Nature. 1990 Jun 21;345(6277):743-6.

Relationship of a putative receptor protein kinase from maize to the S-locus
glycoproteins of Brassica.

Walker JC(1), Zhang R.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biological Sciences, University of Missouri, Columbia 65211.

The protein kinase family of enzymes mediates the responses of eukaryotic cells
to both inter- and intracellular signals. These enzymes are either
serine/threonine-specific or tyrosine-specific. Many of the latter are
transmembrane receptors and are important in transduction of extracellular
signals across the plasma membrane, whereas few examples of receptor serine
kinases have been reported. We have now identified a complementary DNA clone from
Zea mays (L.) encoding a putative serine/threonine-specific protein kinase
structurally related to the receptor tyrosine kinases. This structural similarity
is evidence for a previously undescribed class of transmembrane receptor in
higher plants likely to be involved in signal reception and transduction.
Furthermore, the catalytic domain of this protein kinase is linked through a
transmembrane domain to an extracellular domain similar to that of glycoproteins 
encoded in the self-incompatibility locus of Brassica which are involved in the
self-recognition system between pollen and stigma.

DOI: 10.1038/345743a0 
PMID: 2163028  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Nature. 1990 Jun 21;345(6277):739-43.

Transposition of an antibiotic resistance element in mycobacteria.

Martin C(1), Timm J, Rauzier J, Gomez-Lus R, Davies J, Gicquel B.

Author information: 
(1)Unité de Genie Microbiologique (URA 209 du CNRS), Institut Pasteur, Paris,
France.

Bacterial resistance to antibiotics is often plasmid-mediated and the associated 
resistance genes encoded by transposable elements. Mycobacteria, including the
human pathogens Mycobacterium tuberculosis and M. leprae, are resistant to many
antibiotics, and their cell-surface structure is believed to be largely
responsible for the wide range of resistance phenotypes. Antibiotic-resistance
plasmids have so far not been implicated in resistance of mycobacteria to
antibiotics. Nevertheless, antibiotic-modifying activities such as aminoglycoside
acetyltransferases and phosphotransferases have been detected in fast-growing
species. beta-lactamases have also been found in most fast- and slow-growing
mycobacteria. To date no mycobacterial antibiotic-resistance genes have been
isolated and characterized. We now report the isolation, cloning and sequencing
of a genetic region responsible for resistance to sulphonamides in M. fortuitum. 
This region also contains an open reading frame homologous to one present in
Tn1696 (member of the Tn21 family) which encodes a site-specific integrase. The
mycobacterial resistance element is flanked by repeated sequences of 880 base
pairs similar to the insertion elements of the IS6 family found in Gram+ and
Gram- bacteria. The insertion element is shown to transpose to different sites in
the chromosome of a related fast-growing species, M. smegmatis. The
characterization of this element should permit transposon mutagenesis in the
analysis of mycobacterial virulence and related problems.

DOI: 10.1038/345739a0 
PMID: 2163027  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Nature. 1990 Jun 21;345(6277):727-9.

Prevention of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus in non-obese diabetic mice by
transgenes encoding modified I-A beta-chain or normal I-E alpha-chain.

Lund T(1), O'Reilly L, Hutchings P, Kanagawa O, Simpson E, Gravely R, Chandler P,
Dyson J, Picard JK, Edwards A, et al.

Author information: 
(1)University College and Middlesex School of Medicine, London, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jun 21;345(6277):662-4.

Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) is a disease with an autoimmune
aetiology. The inbred non-obese diabetic (NOD) mouse strain provides a good
animal model of the human disease and genetic analysis suggests that, as in man, 
at least one of the several genes controlling the development of IDDM is linked
to the major histocompatibility complex. The NOD mouse does not express I-E owing
to a deletion in the promoter region of the I-E alpha-chain gene, and the
sequence of NOD I-A beta-chain in the first external domain is unique with His 56
and Ser 57 replacing Pro and Asp, respectively, at these positions. There has
been considerable interest in the role amino acid 57 might have in conferring
susceptibility to autoimmune diseases, including IDDM. The presence of a charged 
residue (such as Asp) at this position might affect the conformation of the
peptide binding groove. But it could be assumed that Pro 56 gives rise to a
different conformation of I-A beta-chain than does His 56. We therefore
constructed transgenic NOD mice in which the transgene encoded a modified A beta 
nod with Pro 56, and studied its effect on the development of IDDM in this mouse 
strain. Previous studies have suggested that NOD mice expressing I-E as a result 
of the introduction of an I-E alpha-chain (E alpha) transgene are protected from 
the development of insulitis and hence IDDM. To explore further the protective
effect of this molecule we constructed a second class of transgenic NOD mouse
carrying an E alpha d transgene. Both transgenes protected the mice from IDDM,
but this was not associated with a complete deletion of any T cells expressing
commonly used T-cell receptor V beta genes.

DOI: 10.1038/345727a0 
PMID: 2163026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Nature. 1990 Jun 21;345(6277):659-60.

Duesberg, HIV and AIDS.

Weiss RA(1), Jaffe HW.

Author information: 
(1)Chester Beatty Laboratories, Institute of Cancer Research, London, UK.

Erratum in
    Nature 1990 Jul 5;346(6279):22.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Sep 27;347(6291):325.
    Nature. 1990 Aug 30;346(6287):788.

Last century there was a sharp difference of opinion between those, such as Koch 
and Pasteur, who proposed that disease could be caused by invisible microbes, and
others who held that epidemics are the result of evil vapours (mal'aria).
Arguments that AIDS does not have an infectious basis are as quaint as those of
the miasmalists.

DOI: 10.1038/345659a0 
PMID: 2163025  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Nature. 1990 Jun 21;345(6277):736-9.

Hereditary spherocytosis associated with deletion of human erythrocyte ankyrin
gene on chromosome 8.

Lux SE(1), Tse WT, Menninger JC, John KM, Harris P, Shalev O, Chilcote RR,
Marchesi SL, Watkins PC, Bennett V, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

Hereditary spherocytosis (HS) is one of the most common hereditary haemolytic
anaemias. HS red cells from both autosound dominant and recessive variants are
spectrin-deficient, which correlates with the severity of the disease. Some
patients with recessive HS have a mutation in the spectrin alpha-2 domain (S.L.M.
et al., unpublished observations), and a few dominant HS patients have an
unstable beta-spectrin that is easily oxidized, which damages the protein 4.1
binding site and weakens spectrin-actin interactions. In most patients, however, 
the cause of spectrin deficiency is unknown. The alpha- and beta-spectrin loci
are on chromosomes 1 and 14 respectively. The only other genetic locus for HS is 
SPH2, on the short arm of chromosome 8 (8p11). This does not correspond to any of
the known loci of genes for red cell membrane proteins including protein 4.1
(1p36.2-p34), the anion exchange protein (AE1, band 3; 17q21-qter), glycophorin C
(2q14-q21), and beta-actin (7pter-q22). Human erythrocyte ankyrin, which links
beta-spectrin to the anion exchange protein, has recently been cloned. We now
show that the ankyrin gene maps to chromosome 8p11.2, and that one copy is
missing from DNA of two unrelated children with severe HS and heterozygous
deletions of chromosome 8 (del(8)(p11-p21.1)). Affected red cells are also
ankyrin-deficient. The data suggest that defects or deficiency or ankyrin are
responsible for HS at the SPH2 locus.

DOI: 10.1038/345736a0 
PMID: 2141669  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Nature. 1990 Jun 21;345(6277):718-21.

Injection of the cAMP-responsive element into the nucleus of Aplysia sensory
neurons blocks long-term facilitation.

Dash PK(1), Hochner B, Kandel ER.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, New York, New York.

In both vertebrates and invertebrates, long-term memory differs from short-term
in requiring protein synthesis during training. Studies of the gill and siphon
withdrawal reflex in Aplysia indicate that similar requirements can be
demonstrated at the level of sensory and motor neurons which may participate in
memory storage. A single application of serotonin, a transmitter that mediates
sensitization, to individual sensory and motor cells in dissociated cell cultures
leads to enhanced transmitter release from the sensory neurons that is
independent of new macromolecular synthesis. Five applications of serotonin cause
a long-term enhancement, lasting one or more days, which requires translation and
transcription. Prolonged application or intracellular injection into the sensory 
neuron of cyclic AMP, a second messenger for the action of serotonin, also
produce long-term increases in synaptic strength, suggesting that some of the
gene products important for long-term facilitation are cAMP-inducible. In
eukaryotic cells, most cAMP-inducible genes so far studied are activated by the
cAMP-dependent protein kinase (A kinase), which phosphorylates transcription
factors that bind the cAMP-responsive element TGACGTCA. The cAMP-responsive
element (CRE) binds a protein dimer of relative molecular mass 43,000, the
CRE-binding protein (CREBP), which has been purified and shown to increase
transcription when phosphorylated by the A kinase. Here we show that extracts of 
the Aplysia central nervous system and extracts of sensory neurons contain a set 
of proteins, including one with properties similar to mammalian CREBPs, that
specifically bind the mammalian CRE sequence. Microinjection of the CRE sequence 
into the nucleus of a sensory neuron selectively blocks the serotonin-induced
long-term increase in synaptic strength, without affecting short-term
facilitation. Taken together, these observations suggest that one or more
CREB-like transcriptional activators are required for long-term facilitation.

DOI: 10.1038/345718a0 
PMID: 2141668  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Nature. 1990 Jun 21;345(6277):732-4.

Activin-like factor from a Xenopus laevis cell line responsible for mesoderm
induction.

van den Eijnden-Van Raaij AJ(1), van Zoelent EJ, van Nimmen K, Koster CH, Snoek
GT, Durston AJ, Huylebroeck D.

Author information: 
(1)Hubrecht Laboratory, Netherlands Institute for Developmental Biology, Utrecht.

Induction of mesoderm during early amphibian embryogenesis can be mimicked in
vitro by adding growth factors, including heparin-binding and type-beta
transforming growth factors (TGF-beta), to isolated ectoderm explants from
Xenopus laevis embryos. Although the mesoderm-inducing factor (MIF) from X.
laevis XTC cells (XTC-MIF) has properties similar to TGF-beta, this factor is
still unidentified. Recently, we obtained a number of homogeneous cell lines from
the heterogeneous XTC population, which differ in their MIF production. Only one,
XTC-GTX-11, produced MIF, although it was similar to the rest of the clones in
its production of known growth factors, including TGF-beta activity. This
observation, together with the identification of activin A as a potent MIF led us
to study the parallel activities of MIF and activin. Here we report an analysis
of activin-like activity from XTC cells and some of the XTC clones, including
XTC-GTX-11. There is a clear consistent correlation between MIF activity and
presence of activin activity, indicating that XTC-MIF is the Xenopus homologue of
mammalian activin.

DOI: 10.1038/345732a0 
PMID: 2113616  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Nature. 1990 Jun 21;345(6277):729-31.

Identification of a potent Xenopus mesoderm-inducing factor as a homologue of
activin A.

Smith JC(1), Price BM, Van Nimmen K, Huylebroeck D.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Embryogenesis, National Institute for Medical Research, Mill
Hill, London, UK.

The first inductive interaction in amphibian development is mesoderm induction,
when a signal from the vegetal hemisphere of the blastula induces mesoderm from
overlying equatorial cells. Recently, several 'mesoderm-inducing factors' (MIFs) 
have been discovered. These cause isolated Xenopus animal caps to form mesodermal
cell types such as muscle, instead of their normal fate of epidermis. The MIFs
fall into two classes. One comprises members of the fibroblast growth factor
(FGF) family, and the other members of the transforming growth factor type beta
(TGF-beta) family. Of the latter group, the most potent is XTC-MIF, a protein
produced by Xenopus XTC cells. Here we show that XTC-MIF is the homologue of
mammalian activin A. Activins modulate the release of follicle-stimulating
hormone from cultured anterior pituitary cells and cause the differentiation of
two erythroleukaemia cell lines. Our results indicate that these molecules may
also act in early development during formation of the mesoderm.

DOI: 10.1038/345729a0 
PMID: 2113615  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Nature. 1990 Jun 21;345(6277):722-4.

Direct evidence for the contribution of the unique I-ANOD to the development of
insulitis in non-obese diabetic mice.

Miyazaki T(1), Uno M, Uehira M, Kikutani H, Kishimoto T, Kimoto M, Nishimoto H,
Miyazaki J, Yamamura K.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Medical Genetics, Kumamoto University Medical School, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jun 21;345(6277):662-4.

Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus is characterized by the infiltration of
lymphocytes into the islets of Langerhans of the pancreas (insulitis) followed by
destruction of insulin-secreting beta-cells leading to overt diabetes. The best
model for the disease is the non-obese diabetic (NOD) mouse. Two unusual features
of the class II major histocompatibility complex (MHC) of the NOD mouse are the
absence of I-E and the presence of unique I-A molecules (I-ANOD), in which
aspartic acid at position 57 of the beta-chain is replaced by serine. This
feature is also found in the HLA-DQ chain of many Caucasians with
insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. We have previously reported that the
expression of I-E prevents the development of insulitis in NOD mouse. Here we
report that the expression of I-Ak (A alpha kA beta k) in transgenic NOD mice can
also prevent insulitis, and that this protection is seen not only when the I-A
beta-chain has aspartic acid as residue 57, but also when this residue is serine.
These results show that the single amino-acid substitution at position 57 of the 
I-A beta-chain from aspartic acid to serine is not sufficient for the development
of the disease.

DOI: 10.1038/345722a0 
PMID: 2113614  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Nature. 1990 Jun 21;345(6277):734-6.

Localization of the human GM-CSF receptor gene to the X-Y pseudoautosomal region.

Gough NM(1), Gearing DP, Nicola NA, Baker E, Pritchard M, Callen DF, Sutherland
GR.

Author information: 
(1)Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, Royal Melbourne Hospital,
Parkville, Victoria, Australia.

Mammalian sex chromosomes share a small terminal region of homologous DNA
sequences, which pair and recombine during male meiosis. Alleles in this region
can be exchanged between X and Y chromosomes and are therefore inherited as if
autosomal. Genes from this so-called pseudoautosomal region (PAR) are present in 
two doses in both males and females, and escape inactivation of the X chromosome 
in females. Indirect evidence suggests that there must be several pseudoautosomal
genes, and several candidates have been proposed. Until now, the only gene that
has been unequivocally located in the PAR is MIC2, which encodes a cell-surface
antigen of unknown function. We now report the localization of a gene of known
function to this region--the gene for the receptor of the haemopoietic regulator,
granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor. The chromosomal localization of
this gene may be important in understanding the generation of M2 acute myeloid
leukaemia.

DOI: 10.1038/345734a0 
PMID: 1972780  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Nature. 1990 Jun 21;345(6277):724-6.

Prevention of diabetes in non-obese diabetic I-Ak transgenic mice.

Slattery RM(1), Kjer-Nielsen L, Allison J, Charlton B, Mandel TE, Miller JF.

Author information: 
(1)Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, Royal Melbourne Hospital,
Victoria, Australia.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jun 21;345(6277):662-4.

The non-obese diabetic (NOD) mouse develops insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus
(IDDM) with mononuclear cell infiltration of the islets of Langerhans and
selective destruction of the insulin-producing beta-cells, as in humans. Most
infiltrating cells are T lymphocytes, and most of these carry the CD4 antigen.
Adoptive transfer of T cells from diabetic NOD mice into irradiated NOD or
athymic nude NOD mice induces diabetes. Susceptibility to IDDM in NOD mice is
polygenic, with one gene linked to the major histocompatibility complex class II 
locus, which in NOD mice expresses a unique I-A molecule but no I-E. Speculation 
exists as to the role of the I-A molecule in the diabetes susceptibility of NOD
mice, especially regarding the significance of specific unique residues. To
examine the role of the NOD I-A molecule in IDDM pathogenesis, we made NOD/Lt
mice transgenic for I-Ak by microinjecting I-Ak alpha- and beta-genes into
fertilized NOD/Lt eggs. Insulitis was markedly reduced and diabetes prevented in 
NOD/Lt mice expressing I-Ak.

DOI: 10.1038/345724a0 
PMID: 1972779  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Nature. 1990 Jun 21;345(6277):716-8.

Blocking of acquisition but not expression of conditioned fear-potentiated
startle by NMDA antagonists in the amygdala.

Miserendino MJ(1), Sananes CB, Melia KR, Davis M.

Author information: 
(1)Yale University School of Medicine, Connecticut Mental Health Center, New
Haven 06508.

Receptors for N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) seem to have a critical role in
synaptic plasticity. NMDA antagonists (such as AP5) prevent induction of
long-term potentiation, an activity-dependent enhancement of synaptic efficacy
mediated by neural mechanisms that might also underlie learning and memory. They 
also attenuate memory formation in several behavioural tasks; there are few data,
however, implicating an NMDA-sensitive measure of conditioning based on local
infusion of antagonists into a brain area tightly coupled to the behavioural
response used to assess conditioning. We now show that NMDA antagonists infused
into the amygdala block the acquisition, but not the expression, of fear
conditioning measured with a behavioural assay mediated by a defined neural
circuit (fear-potentiation of the acoustic startle reflex). This effect showed
anatomical and pharmacological specificity, and was not attributable to reduced
salience of the stimuli of light or shock used in training. The data indicate
that an NMDA-dependent process in the amygdala subserves associative fear
conditioning.

DOI: 10.1038/345716a0 
PMID: 1972778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Nature. 1990 Jun 21;345(6277):686-92.

A POU-domain transcription factor in early stem cells and germ cells of the
mammalian embryo.

Rosner MH(1), Vigano MA, Ozato K, Timmons PM, Poirier F, Rigby PW, Staudt LM.

Author information: 
(1)Metabolism Branch, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

The murine oct-3 gene encodes a transcription factor containing a POU-specific
domain and a homeodomain. In marked contrast to other homeodomain-encoding genes,
oct-3 is expressed in the totipotent and pluripotent stem cells of the
pregastrulation embryo and is down-regulated during differentiation to endoderm
and mesoderm, suggesting that it has a role in early development. The oct-3 gene 
is also expressed in primordial germ cells and in the female germ line.

DOI: 10.1038/345686a0 
PMID: 1972777  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Nature. 1990 Jun 14;345(6276):618-21.

Kinetics, stoichiometry and role of the Na-Ca exchange mechanism in isolated
cardiac myocytes.

Crespo LM(1), Grantham CJ, Cannell MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology (R-189), University of Miami School of Medicine,
Florida 33101.

Compelling evidence has existed for more than a decade for a sodium/calcium
(Na-Ca) exchange mechanism in the surface membrane of mammalian heart muscle
cells which exchanges about three sodium ions for each calcium ion. Although it
is known that cardiac muscle contraction is regulated by a transient increase in 
intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) triggered by the action potential, the
contribution of the Na-Ca exchanger to the [Ca2+]i transient and to calcium
extrusion during rest is unclear. To clarify these questions, changes in [Ca2+]i 
were measured with indo-1 in single cardiac myocytes which were voltage clamped
and dialysed with a physiological level of sodium. We find that Ca entry through 
the Na-Ca exchanger is too slow to affect markedly the rate of rise of the normal
[Ca2+]i transient. On repolarization, Ca extrusion by the exchanger causes
[Ca2+]i to decline with a time constant of 0.5 s at -80 mV. The rate of decline
can be slowed e-fold with a 77-mV depolarization. Calcium extrusion by the
exchanger can account for about 15% of the rate of decline of the [Ca2+]i
transient (the remainder being calcium resequestration by the sarcoplasmic
reticulum (SR]. The ability of the cell to extrude calcium was greatly reduced on
inhibiting the exchanger by removing external sodium, which itself led to an
increase in resting [Ca2+]i. This finding is in contrast to the suggestion that
calcium extrusion at rest is mediated mainly by a sarcolemmal Ca-ATPase.(ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1038/345618a0 
PMID: 2348872  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Nature. 1990 Jun 14;345(6276):640-2.

Activation of transcription by HIV-1 Tat protein tethered to nascent RNA through 
another protein.

Southgate C(1), Zapp ML, Green MR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138.

The human immunodeficiency virus type I (HIV-1) nuclear protein Tat is a potent
activator of viral gene transcription. Activation by Tat requires a cis-acting
element, the transactivation response (TAR) site, located immediately downstream 
of the transcription start site. Several observations suggest that TAR functions 
as the nascent RNA product of the HIV long-terminal-repeat promoter (for a
review, see ref. 6). Indeed, Tat protein and several cellular proteins bind
directly to nascent TAR RNA in vitro. The significance of these in vitro
interactions remains to be established. Here we report that Tat can activate
transcription when bound to nascent RNA through the RNA-binding domain of another
HIV-1 protein, Rev. Rev is a sequence-specific RNA-binding protein, which
interacts with the viral RNA element RRE (refs 11-15). A Tat-Rev fusion protein
efficiently activates transcription from an HIV-1 promoter derivative, in which
TAR has been replaced by the RRE. We conclude that activation of transcription by
Tat can occur by direct binding to nascent RNA, and that the sole function of TAR
may be to provide a Tat-binding site. Our results further suggest that cellular
proteins that bind specifically to TAR RNA or TAR DNA may not be essential for
Tat-responsiveness.

DOI: 10.1038/345640a0 
PMID: 2190099  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Nature. 1990 Jun 14;345(6276):632-4.

T-cell clones from a type-1 diabetes patient respond to insulin secretory granule
proteins.

Roep BO(1), Arden SD, de Vries RR, Hutton JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunohaematology and Blood Bank, University Hospital, Leiden,
The Netherlands.

T LYMPHOCYTES reactive to pancreatic beta-cells are thought to have a central
role in the autoimmune process leading to type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes,
but the molecular targets of these T cells have not yet been defined. As
identification of such antigens may enable measures to be developed to prevent
the disease, we have characterized an antigen that is recognized by insulinoma
membrane-reactive T-cell clones established from a newly diagnosed type-1
diabetes patient. Subcellular fractionation studies using rat insulinoma indicate
that the antigenic determinant recognized by one of these clones is an integral
membrane component of the insulin secretory granule. After a 5,000-fold
purification, we have defined the antigen as a monomer of relative molecular mass
38,000. As granular membrane proteins are transiently exposed on the cell surface
during exocytosis, their accessibility to components of the immune system may be 
a function of the secretory activity of beta-cells.

DOI: 10.1038/345632a0 
PMID: 2190098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Nature. 1990 Jun 14;345(6276):628-32.

Fc receptor phosphorylation during receptor-mediated control of B-cell
activation.

Hunziker W(1), Koch T, Whitney JA, Mellman I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06510.

It is well known that Fc receptors for IgG (FcRII) on macrophages mediate the
endocytosis of antibody-antigen complexes and signal the release of inflammatory 
and cytotoxic agents. FcRII are also expressed at high levels on B cells where
they are less involved in endocytosis than in modulating B-cell activation by
membrane immunoglobulins. Although crosslinking of membrane immunoglobulins can
result in B-cell differentiation and proliferation through stimulation of
phospholipase C, mobilization of intracellular Ca2+, and activation of protein
kinase C, crosslinking FcR with membrane immunoglobulins confers a dominant
inhibitory signal that prevents or aborts activation. This form of regulation may
have a role in the induction of tolerance by IgG and in controlling the B-cell
repertoire by anti-idiotypes. The different functions of FcR on B cells and
macrophages may reflect the fact that these cell types express closely related
but distinct FcR isoforms. We have recently found that the main lymphocyte FcR
isoform, FcRII-B1, is unable to mediate endocytosis by way of coated pits and
coated vesicles owing to an in-frame insertion of 47 amino acids in its
cytoplasmic tail. Here we show that this insert, absent from the FcRII-B2
macrophage isoform, also contains serine phosphorylation sites that may have a
role in the ability of FcR to regulate B-cell activation through membrane
immunoglobulins.

DOI: 10.1038/345628a0 
PMID: 2190097  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Nature. 1990 Jun 14;345(6276):625-8.

Prevention of HIV-1 glycoprotein transport by soluble CD4 retained in the
endoplasmic reticulum.

Buonocore L(1), Rose JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06510.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jun 14;345(6276):573-4.

The envelope glycoprotein (gp120/41) of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) 
attaches the virus to the cellular CD4 receptor and mediates virus entry into the
cytoplasm. In addition to being required for formation of infectious HIV,
expression of gp120/41 at the plasma membrane causes the cytopathic fusion of
cells carrying the CD4 antigen. The expression of gp120/41 is therefore an ideal 
target for therapeutic strategies designed to combat AIDS. Here we show that
expression of a soluble CD4 molecule, mutated to contain a specific retention
signal for the endoplasmic reticulum, blocks secretion of gp120 and surface
expression of gp120/41, but does not interfere with transport of wild-type CD4.
By blocking transport of the HIV glycoprotein, this retained CD4 molecule
prevents the fusion of CD4 cells that is normally caused by the HIV glycoprotein.
Expression of the retained CD4 molecule in human T cells might therefore be
useful in the intracellular immunization procedure suggested by Baltimore.

DOI: 10.1038/345625a0 
PMID: 2190096  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Nature. 1990 Jun 14;345(6276):622-5.

Protection of chimpanzees from infection by HIV-1 after vaccination with
recombinant glycoprotein gp120 but not gp160.

Berman PW(1), Gregory TJ, Riddle L, Nakamura GR, Champe MA, Porter JP, Wurm FM,
Hershberg RD, Cobb EK, Eichberg JW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California 
94080.

The development of a vaccine to provide protective immunity to human
immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), the virus causing AIDS, would be the most 
practical method to control its spread. Subunit vaccines consisting of virus
envelope glycoproteins, produced by recombinant DNA technology, are effective in 
preventing viral infections. We have now used this approach in the development of
a candidate AIDS vaccine. Chimpanzees were immunized with recombinant forms of
the HIV-1 glycoproteins gp120 and gp160 produced in Chinese hamster ovary cells, 
and then challenged with HIV-1. The control and the two animals immunized with
the gp160 variant became infected within 7 weeks of challenge. The two animals
immunized with the gp120 variant have shown no signs of infection after more than
6 months. These studies demonstrate that recombinant gp120, formulated in an
adjuvant approved for human use, can elicit protective immunity against a
homologous strain of HIV-1.

DOI: 10.1038/345622a0 
PMID: 2190095  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Nature. 1990 Jun 14;345(6276):615-8.

Invariant chain association with HLA-DR molecules inhibits immunogenic peptide
binding.

Roche PA(1), Cresswell P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Duke University Medical Center,
Durham, North Carolina 27710.

Class II major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules are heterodimeric cell 
surface glycoproteins which bind and present immunogenic peptides to T
lymphocytes. Such peptides are normally derived from protein antigens
internalized and proteolytically degraded by the antigen-presenting cell. Class I
MHC molecules also bind immunogenic peptides, but these are derived from proteins
synthesized within the target cell. Whereas class I molecules seem to bind
peptides in the endoplasmic reticulum, class II molecules are thought to bind
peptides late in transport. Intracellular class II molecules associate in the
endoplasmic reticulum with a third glycoprotein, the invariant (I) chain, which
is proteolytically removed before cell surface expression of the alpha beta class
II heterodimer. It has been suggested that the I chain prevents peptides from
associating with class II molecules early in transport. Preventing such binding
until the class II molecules enter an endosomal compartment could maintain the
functional dichotomy between class I and class II MHC molecules. We have examined
the ability of I chain-associated HLA-DR5 molecules to bind a well characterized 
influenza haemagglutinin-derived peptide (HAp). The results show that whereas
mature HLA-DR alpha beta dimers effectively bind this peptide, the I
chain-associated form does not.

DOI: 10.1038/345615a0 
PMID: 2190094  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Nature. 1990 Jun 14;345(6276):593-8.

Three-dimensional structure of the free radical protein of ribonucleotide
reductase.

Nordlund P(1), Sjöberg BM, Eklund H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, 
Uppsala.

The enzyme ribonucleotide reductase furnishes precursors for the DNA synthesis of
all living cells. One of its constituents, the free radical protein, has an
unusual alpha-helical structure. There are two iron centres that are about 25 A
apart in the dimeric molecule. Tyrosine 122, which harbours the stable free
radical necessary for the activity of ribonucleotide reductase, is buried inside 
the protein and is located 5 A from the closest iron atom.

DOI: 10.1038/345593a0 
PMID: 2190093  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Nature. 1990 Jun 14;345(6276):642-6.

Structure of the fibronectin type 1 module.

Baron M(1), Norman D, Willis A, Campbell ID.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Oxford, UK.

The rapid accumulation of sequence data has provided insight into the evolution
of proteins and led to the identification of 'mosaic proteins'. These proteins
have evolved by duplication, insertion and deletion of a common pool of
structural units or modules, yet their biological functions are diverse. They are
involved in cell adhesion and migration, embryogenesis and the pathways of blood 
clotting, fibrinolysis and complement. The modular units are defined by
'consensus sequences' which often include conserved disulphide bonds. Despite the
available sequence information, little is known of the tertiary structure of
mosaic proteins. If, however, the 'consensus structure' of the modules were
known, valuable structural information could be inferred about a wide variety of 
proteins and biological systems. An important mosaic protein is fibronectin, an
extracellular matrix protein that consists of three types of module (see refs 3, 
7 for reviews). Here we describe the structure of the fibronectin type 1 module
which appears twelve times in fibronectin and is also found in factor XII and
tissue plasminogen activator. The module was produced using a yeast expression
system and the structure was determined in solution using 1H NMR. This
methodology promises to be extremely powerful in the investigation of modules
from a wide range of mosaic proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/345642a0 
PMID: 2112232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Nature. 1990 Jun 14;345(6276):634-6.

The LDL receptor pathway delivers arachidonic acid for eicosanoid formation in
cells stimulated by platelet-derived growth factor.

Habenicht AJ(1), Salbach P, Goerig M, Zeh W, Janssen-Timmen U, Blattner C, King
WC, Glomset JA.

Author information: 
(1)University of Heidelberg, FRG.

Erratum in
    Nature 1990 Aug 9;346(6284):589.

Animal cells can convert 20-carbon polyunsaturated fatty acids into
prostaglandins (PGs) and leukotrienes. These locally produced mediators of
inflammatory and immunological reactions act in an autocrine or paracrine
fashion. Arachidonic acid (AA), the precursor of most PGs and leukotrienes, is
present in the form of lipid esters within plasma lipoproteins and cannot be
synthesised de novo by animal cells. Therefore, AA or its plant-derived
precursor, linoleic acid, must be provided to cells if PGs or leukotrienes are to
be formed. Because several classes of lipoproteins, including low-density
lipoproteins (LDL), very-low-density lipoproteins, and chylomicron remnants, are 
taken up by means of the LDL receptor, and because LDL and very-low-density
lipoproteins, but not high-density lipoproteins, stimulate PG synthesis, we have 
suggested previously that PG formation is directly linked to the LDL pathway.
Using fibroblasts with the receptor-negative phenotype of familial
hypercholesterolaemia and anti-LDL receptor antibodies, we show here that LDL
deliver AA for PG production and that an LDL receptor-dependent feedback
mechanism inhibits the activity of PGH synthase, the rate-limiting enzyme of PG
synthesis. These results indicate that the LDL pathway has a regulatory role in
PG synthesis, in addition to its well-known role in the maintenance of cellular
cholesterol homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1038/345634a0 
PMID: 2112231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Nature. 1990 Jun 14;345(6276):636-40.

Sequence analysis and acute pathogenicity of molecularly cloned SIVSMM-PBj14.

Dewhurst S(1), Embretson JE, Anderson DC, Mullins JI, Fultz PN.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard University, School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts 02115.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jun 14;345(6276):572-3.

The PBj14 isolate of simian immunodeficiency virus from sooty mangabey monkeys
(SIVSMM-PBj14) is the most acutely pathogenic primate lentivirus so far
described, always causing fatal disease in pig-tailed macaques (Macaca
nemestrina) within 8 days of inoculation. As a first step in identifying viral
genes and gene products that influence pathogenicity, the SIVSMM-PBj14 genome was
amplified by the polymerase chain reaction as 5' and 3' genomic halves of 5.1 and
5.8 kilobases, respectively, and molecularly cloned. DNA sequence analysis
revealed a high degree of conservation with other SIVs, except for a 22-base-pair
duplication in the enhancer region of the viral long terminal repeat which
included a second binding site for the transcription factor NF-kappa B. Of six
genomic halves examined, four contributed to the formation of infectious virus
that induced acute disease and death in pig-tailed macaques as early as 6 days
post-inoculation, with pathology, disease syndromes and kinetics
indistinguishable from those induced by the uncloned isolate. To our knowledge
this is the first example of acute immunodeficiency disease induced by a
molecularly defined lentivirus. Furthermore, the molecularly cloned SIVSMM-PBj14 
viruses share with the uncloned virus cytopathicity for mangabey CD4+ cells, a
property that may correlate with their observed pathogenicity in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/345636a0 
PMID: 1971917  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Nature. 1990 Jun 7;345:528-30.

Phototropism and geotropism in maize coleoptiles are spatially correlated with
increases in cytosolic free calcium.

Gehring CA(1), Williams DA, Cody SH, Parish RW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, La Trobe University, Bundoora, Australia.

Phototropism and gravitropism in the shoots and roots of higher plants are the
result of asymmetric growth. This is explained by the redistribution of growth
regulators following exposure to gravity or unilateral light (the Cholodny-Went
hypothesis). The positive phototropism and the negative geotropism of grass
seedling coleoptiles are believed to result from lateral movement of auxin from
the irradiated to the shaded side and from the upper to the lower side,
respectively. Many physiological processes in plants, including auxin-induced
cell elongation, are reported to be under the control of calcium. Added auxin
triggers oscillations in cytosolic free calcium ([Ca2+]cyt) and cytosolic pH
(pHcyt) in epidermal cells of maize coleoptiles. Until recently, it has not been 
possible to visualize these changes spatially with the commonly used fluorescent 
cation indicators. Using a scanning laser confocal microscope, a new visible
wavelength Ca2+ probe fluo-3 and the fluorescent pH indicator BCECF, we have
recorded rapid light-induced increases in [Ca2+]cyt and a lowering of pHcyt of
cells on the shaded side of maize coleoptiles. In horizontally orientated
coleoptiles, [Ca2+]cyt increases and pHcyt decreases in the more rapidly
elongating cells on the lower side. For the first time, rapid changes in
[Ca2+]cyt and pHcyt are correlated directly with increases in cell elongation
stimulated by light and gravity.

DOI: 10.1038/345528a0 
PMID: 11540625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Nature. 1990 Jun 7;345(6275):550-3.

C-terminal truncated glucose transporter is locked into an inward-facing form
without transport activity.

Oka Y(1), Asano T, Shibasaki Y, Lin JL, Tsukuda K, Katagiri H, Akanuma Y, Takaku 
F.

Author information: 
(1)Third Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Tokyo, Japan.

The facilitated glucose transporters comprise a structurally related family of
proteins predicted to have 12 membrane-spanning domains, with the amino terminus,
a relatively large middle loop and the carboxy-terminus all oriented towards the 
cytoplasm. An alternating conformation model has been proposed to explain the
mechanism of facilitated glucose transport. To understand the structure-function 
relationships, especially the role of the intracellular C-terminal domain, we
have modified the rabbit equivalent of the erythroid-type transporter, GLUT1
(ref. 18), using complementary DNA to code for a deletion mutant that lacks most 
(37 out of 42 amino acids) of the intracellular C-terminal domain. This deletion 
mutant is expressed at the cell surface of Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, but
is functionally inactive, probably because it has lost its capacity to alternate 
in conformation and so is locked into an inward-facing form.

DOI: 10.1038/345550a0 
PMID: 2348864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Nature. 1990 Jun 7;345(6275):547-50.

Identification of a functional intermediate in receptor activation in
progesterone-dependent cell-free transcription.

Bagchi MK(1), Tsai SY, Tsai MJ, O'Malley BW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030.

The steroid hormone, progesterone, enhances transcription in vivo from promoters 
containing progesterone response elements (PREs). We have recently shown that the
progesterone receptor (PR) modulates transcription in a cell-free system by
facilitating the formation of a stable preinitiation complex, apparently through 
interaction with RNA polymerase II and other basic transcription factors. The
precise role of ligand in this activation process remains unclear, however. In
order to dissect the role of steroid ligand in gene action, we sought to devise
an in vitro transcription system that mimics the hormone-dependent
transcriptional activation observed in vivo. We now report the successful
reconstitution in vitro of progesterone-dependent RNA synthesis from a PRE-driven
promoter in nuclear extracts of human breast carcinoma (T47D) cells. The
transcriptional activation is triggered by the hormone-induced binding of
endogenous PR to PREs and exhibits hormone-specificity. The receptor exists in a 
4S form in our initial salt-treated extract and is apparently dissociated from
the heat-shock protein hsp90. Nevertheless, hormone is still required for DNA
binding and transcriptional activation. These results suggest that dissociation
of hsp90 and conversion to an inactive 4S intermediate could occur before the
final event in ligand-mediated transactivation of gene expression.

DOI: 10.1038/345547a0 
PMID: 2348863  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Nature. 1990 Jun 7;345(6275):544-7.

Malignant transformation by a eukaryotic initiation factor subunit that binds to 
mRNA 5' cap.

Lazaris-Karatzas A(1), Montine KS, Sonenberg N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

Eukaryotic cellular mRNAs have a 5' cap structure (m7 GpppX) that facilitates
binding to ribosomes and is required for efficient translation. A specific
initiation factor, eIF-4F, mediates the function of the cap and consists of three
subunits, one of which, eIF-4E, binds the cap. This subunit is present in
limiting amounts in the cell, and is thought to be regulated by phosphorylation: 
decreased phosphorylation of eIF-4E following various treatments correlates with 
a decrease in cellular translation rate. These observations suggest that eIF-4E
lies on the mitogenic signal transduction pathway, and we reasoned that
overexpression of eIF-4E might profoundly affect cellular growth properties. We
report here that overexpression of eIF-4E in NIH 3T3 and Rat 2 fibroblasts causes
their tumorigenic transformation as determined by three criteria: formation of
transformed foci on a monolayer of cells; anchorage-independent growth; and
tumour formation in nude mice.

DOI: 10.1038/345544a0 
PMID: 2348862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Nature. 1990 Jun 7;345(6275):542-4.

Induction of sweat glands by epidermal growth factor in murine X-linked
anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia.

Blecher SR(1), Kapalanga J, Lalonde D.

Author information: 
(1)School of Human Biology, University of Guelph, Ontario, Canada.

Tabby (Ta), a murine X-linked mutant gene, produces a syndrome of ectodermal
dysplasia including anhidrosis (absence of sweat glands). Development of sweat
glands is related to that of dermal ridges (dermatoglyphics) and abnormal ridges 
may be associated with absence of sweat glands in the human syndrome of
hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia (HED). We have found that dermal ridges occur
in normal mice but are lacking in Ta mutants. Previously we showed that epidermal
growth factor (EGF) reverses delayed eyelid opening and incisor eruption in Ta
mice. We now report that EGF induces development of dermal ridges and functional 
sweat glands in Ta/Y hemizygotes, indicating a role in mammalian morphogenesis.
Ta seems to be genetically homologous to human X-linked HED, as Ta maps close to 
loci homologous to linkage markers of HED and the two syndromes share many
traits, including absence of all or most sweat glands. Absence of these glands
causes hyperpyrexia, a clinical emergency in infants with HED; reversal of the
trait in the mouse homologue of the disease indicates that an important
genetically determined congenital defect in humans may become treatable.

DOI: 10.1038/345542a0 
PMID: 2348861  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Nature. 1990 Jun 7;345(6275):535-7.

Heteromultimeric channels formed by rat brain potassium-channel proteins.

Ruppersberg JP(1), Schröter KH, Sakmann B, Stocker M, Sewing S, Pongs O.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für medizinische Forschung, Abteilung Zellphysiologie,
Heidelberg, FRG.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jun 7;345(6275):475-6.

An important step towards understanding the molecular basis of the functional
diversity of voltage-gated K+ channels in the mammalian brain has been the
discovery of a family of genes encoding rat brain K+ channel-forming (RCK)
proteins. All species of these RCK proteins form homomultimeric voltage-gated K+ 
channels with distinct functional characteristics in Xenopus laevis oocytes
following injection of the respective cRNAs. RCK-specific mRNAs are coexpressed
in several regions of the brain, suggesting that RCK proteins also assemble into 
heteromultimeric K+ channels. In addition expression experiments with
fractionated poly(A)+ mRNA have suggested that heteromultimeric K+ channels may
occur in mammalian brain. We report here that heteromultimeric K+ channels
composed of two different RCK proteins (RCK1 and RCK4) assemble after
cotransfection of HeLa cells with the corresponding cDNAs and after coinjection
of the corresponding cRNAs into Xenopus oocytes. The heteromultimeric RCK1, 4
channel mediates a transient potassium outward current, similar to the RCK4
channel but inactivates more slowly, has a larger conductance and is more
sensitive to block by dendrotoxin and tetraethylammonium chloride.

DOI: 10.1038/345535a0 
PMID: 2348860  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Nature. 1990 Jun 7;345(6275):537-9.

Effect of bleached rhodopsin on signal amplification in rod visual receptors.

Kahlert M(1), Pepperberg DR, Hofmann KP.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für biophysik und Strahlenbiologie, Albert-Ludwigs Universität
Freiburg, FRG.

Bleaching of rhodopsin markedly desensitizes the vertebrate visual system during 
a subsequent period of dark adaptation. Previous studies have indicated an origin
of bleaching desensitization in the visual pigment itself, but have not
identified the mechanism of action. A candidate for the site at which
densensitization is initially expressed is the activation of transducin
(formation of T*) on the rod disk membranes; this reaction directly involves
rhodopsin in its photoactivated (R*) form and mediates initial amplification of
the visual signal (reviewed in refs 7-9). We have analysed the effect of
bleaching on the sensitivity of a flash-induced light-scattering signal known to 
monitor the disk-based amplifier, and which has been established as specifically 
monitoring transducin activation. We have recorded this signal from functioning
retinal rods in situ ('ATR' signal) and find that bleaches inducing a pronounced,
sustained loss in rod electrophysiological sensitivity do not alter the
sensitivity of the ATR response after correction for reduced quantum catch. Our
results indicate that the biochemical gain of the R*----T* transduction stage
remains unchanged in the presence of bleached pigment and implicate a subsequent 
reaction as the first to show a sustained, bleaching-dependent gain reduction.

DOI: 10.1038/345537a0 
PMID: 2161501  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nature. 1990 Jun 7;345(6275):495-502.

Identification by anti-idiotype antibodies of an intracellular membrane protein
that recognizes a mammalian endoplasmic reticulum retention signal.

Vaux D(1), Tooze J, Fuller S.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology Programm, European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Heidelberg, FRG.

Retraction in
    Vaux D, Tooze J, Fuller S. Nature. 1992 Nov 26;360(6402):372.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jun 7;345(6275):480-1.

Monoclonal antibodies were raised against antibodies to distinct carboxy-terminal
KDEL sequences of two soluble, resident endoplasmic reticulum proteins. These
anti-idiotype reagents recognize an intrinsic membrane protein with
characteristics expected of a receptor responsible for the recognition and return
of resident proteins to the endoplasmic reticulum.

DOI: 10.1038/345495a0 
PMID: 2161500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Nature. 1990 Jun 7;345(6275):502-6.

Major determinants of the specificity of interaction between small nuclear
ribonucleoproteins U1A and U2B'' and their cognate RNAs.

Scherly D(1), Boelens W, Dathan NA, van Venrooij WJ, Mattaj IW.

Author information: 
(1)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Heidelberg, FRG.

The basis of the specificity of interaction of U1 and U2 small nuclear (sn)RNAs
and their cognate binding proteins, U1A and U2B'', has been examined. The U1A
protein recognizes U1 snRNA on its own, whereas U2B'' binds specifically to U2
snRNA only in the presence of a second protein, U2A'. Exchange of two nucleotides
between the two RNAs or of eight amino acids between the two proteins reverses
binding specificity.

DOI: 10.1038/345502a0 
PMID: 2140872  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Nature. 1990 Jun 7;345(6275):553-6.

Small GTP-binding protein associated with Golgi cisternae.

Goud B(1), Zahraoui A, Tavitian A, Saraste J.

Author information: 
(1)Unité de Génétique Somatique (URA CNRS 361), Institut Pasteur, Paris, France.

Eukaryotic cells seem to use GTP hydrolysis to regulate vesicular traffic in
exocytosis and endocytosis. The best evidence for this comes from studies on the 
yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae that have identified two small Ras-related
GTP-binding proteins, Sec4p and Ypt1p, which control distinct stages of the
secretory pathway. In mammalian cells the effects of a non-hydrolysable GTP
analogue, GTP-gamma S, on different transport events have suggested that they
also have proteins functionally related to yeast Sec4p and Ypt1p. The rab genes
have recently been cloned and sequenced for rat and human and their proteins have
highly conserved domains in common with Sec4p and Ypt1p (including a putative
effector binding site). They are therefore good candidates for GTP-binding
proteins involved in intracellular transport in mammalian cells. One of the Rab
proteins (Rab1p) is the mammalian counterpart of Ypt1p (ref. 13). Here we report 
the localization of the protein Rab6p to the Golgi apparatus in several cell
types. By immunolabelling and electron microscopy, Rab6p appears to be
concentrated predominantly on the medial and trans cisternae and distributed over
their entire surface.

DOI: 10.1038/345553a0 
PMID: 2112230  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Nature. 1990 Jun 7;345(6275):530-4.

Evidence for the formation of heteromultimeric potassium channels in Xenopus
oocytes.

Isacoff EY(1), Jan YN, Jan LY.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of California, San Francisco.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jun 7;345(6275):475-6.

Potassium channels show a wide range of functional diversity. Nerve cells
typically express a number of K+ channels that differ in their kinetics,
single-channel conductance, pharmacology, and sensitivity to voltage and second
messengers. The cloning of the Shaker gene in Drosophila, and of related genes,
has revealed that the encoded K+ channel polypeptides resemble one of the four
internally homologous domains of the alpha-subunits of Na+ channels and Ca2+
channels, indicating that K+ channels may form by the co-assembly of several
polypeptides. In this report we provide evidence that the Shaker A-type K+
channels expressed in Xenopus oocytes contain several Shaker polypeptides, that
heteromultimeric channels may form through assembly of different channel
polypeptides, that the kinetics or pharmacology of some heteromultimeric channels
differ from those of homomultimeric channels, and that channel polypeptides from 
the fruit fly can co-assemble with homologous polypeptides from the rat. We
suggest that heteromultimer formation may increase K+ channel diversity beyond
even the level expected from the large number of K+ channel genes and alternative
splicing products.

DOI: 10.1038/345530a0 
PMID: 2112229  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Nature. 1990 Jun 7;345(6275):540-2.

A role for clonal inactivation in T cell tolerance to Mls-1a.

Blackman MA(1), Burgert HG, Woodland DL, Palmer E, Kappler JW, Marrack P.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Denver, Colorado.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):274. Gerhard-Burgert, H [corrected to Burgert,
Hans-Gerhard].

Clonal deletion plays a major part in the maintenance of natural self-tolerance
in both normal and transgenic mice. Self antigens that are expressed in the
thymus result in the physical elimination of autoreactive thymocytes at a
particular stage in their development. For example, the majority V beta 6- and V 
beta 8.1-bearing T cells that recognize the minor lymphocyte-stimulating antigen,
Mls-1a (ref. 10) , are clonally deleted in the thymuses of normal mice and
transgenic mice expressing Mls-1a (refs 2, 3, 9). In contrast, a very different
mechanism of tolerance involving the functional inactivation, but not
elimination, of autoreactive cells, termed clonal inactivation or clonal anergy, 
has been implicated in some experimentally manipulated systems of tolerance. To
test further the mechanisms involved in self-tolerance, we have generated
transgenic mice expressing a V beta 8.1 beta chain on greater than 95% of
peripheral T cells and have tested tolerance to Mls-1a in these mice.
Surprisingly, a significant fraction of the CD4+ peripheral cells that survived
deletion were non-responsive in vitro to any stimulus tested. Naturally occurring
tolerance to a self antigen expressed in the thymus can thus be mediated by
clonal anergy, as well as by clonal deletion.

DOI: 10.1038/345540a0 
PMID: 1971916  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Nature. 1990 May 31;345(6274):458-60.

Telomeres shorten during ageing of human fibroblasts.

Harley CB(1), Futcher AB, Greider CW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

The terminus of a DNA helix has been called its Achilles' heel. Thus to prevent
possible incomplete replication and instability of the termini of linear DNA,
eukaryotic chromosomes end in characteristic repetitive DNA sequences within
specialized structures called telomeres. In immortal cells, loss of telomeric DNA
due to degradation or incomplete replication is apparently balanced by telomere
elongation, which may involve de novo synthesis of additional repeats by novel
DNA polymerase called telomerase. Such a polymerase has been recently detected in
HeLa cells. It has been proposed that the finite doubling capacity of normal
mammalian cells is due to a loss of telomeric DNA and eventual deletion of
essential sequences. In yeast, the est1 mutation causes gradual loss of telomeric
DNA and eventual cell death mimicking senescence in higher eukaryotic cells.
Here, we show that the amount and length of telomeric DNA in human fibroblasts
does in fact decrease as a function of serial passage during ageing in vitro and 
possibly in vivo. It is not known whether this loss of DNA has a causal role in
senescence.

DOI: 10.1038/345458a0 
PMID: 2342578  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Nature. 1990 May 31;345(6274):449-52.

Presentation of viral antigen controlled by a gene in the major
histocompatibility complex.

Cerundolo V(1), Alexander J, Anderson K, Lamb C, Cresswell P, McMichael A, Gotch 
F, Townsend A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Medicine, John Radcliffe Hospital, Headington, Oxford, 
UK.

We describe a mutant human cell line (LBL 721.174) that has lost a function
required for presentation of intracellular viral antigens with class I molecules 
of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), but retains the capacity to
present defined epitopes as extracellular peptides. The cell also has a defect in
the assembly and expression of class I MHC molecules, which we show can be
restored by exposure of the cells to a peptide epitope. This phenotype suggests a
defect in the association of intracellular antigen with class I molecules similar
to that described for the murine mutant RMA-S (ref. 5), but in the present case
the genetic defect can be mapped within the MHC locus on human chromosome 6.

DOI: 10.1038/345449a0 
PMID: 2342577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Nature. 1990 May 31;345(6274):444-6.

Disruption of a C/EBP binding site in the factor IX promoter is associated with
haemophilia B.

Crossley M(1), Brownlee GG.

Author information: 
(1)Sir William Dunn School of Pathology, University of Oxford, UK.

Haemophilia B (or Christmas disease) is an inherited, X-linked bleeding disorder 
caused by mutations in the gene for clotting factor IX. There is a rare class of 
patients, exemplified by haemophilia B Leyden, who suffer from haemophilia B as
children but improve after puberty. In these patients, plasma factor IX
concentrations are less than 10% of normal during childhood, but after puberty
they gradually rise to between 40 and 80% of normal. Mutations clustered around
the main transcription start point (defined as +1 (ref.2)) have been reported in 
seven of these patients (at -20 (refs 1, 3, 4); -6 (refs 5, 6) and +13 (refs 7,
8)). To determine how these mutations interfere with factor IX expression, we
have assayed for transcription factors binding to this area and have identified a
nuclear factor-1 liver (NF1-L) binding site (-99 to -76) and a binding site for
the CCAAT/enhancer binding protein (C/EBP) (+1 to +18). We show that the A----G
mutation at +13 prevents the binding of C/EBP to this site. Furthermore, we show 
that C/EBP is capable of transactivating a cotransfected normal factor IX
promoter but not the mutant promoter. This is the first natural mutation to be
reported which disrupts a C/EBP binding site and is an illustration of the
importance of this transcription factor in humans.

DOI: 10.1038/345444a0 
PMID: 2342576  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Nature. 1990 May 31;345(6274):440-1.

Ciliary neurotrophic factor prevents the degeneration of motor neurons after
axotomy.

Sendtner M(1), Kreutzberg GW, Thoenen H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurochemistry, Max-Planck-Institute for Psychiatry,
Planegg-Martinsried, FRG.

The period of natural cell death in the development of rodent motor neurons is
followed by a period of sensitivity to axonal injury. In the rat this early
postnatal period of vulnerability coincides with that of very low ciliary
neurotrophic factor (CNTF) levels in the sciatic nerve before CNTF increases to
the high, adult levels. The developmental time course of CNTF expression, its
regional tissue distribution and its cytosolic localization (as suggested by its 
primary structure) favour a role for CNTF as a lesion factor rather than a
target-derived neurotrophic molecule like nerve growth factor. Nevertheless CNTF 
exhibits neurotrophic activity in vitro on different populations of embryonic
neurons. To determine whether the vulnerability of motor neurons to axotomy in
the early postnatal phase is due to insufficient availability of CNTF, we
transected the axons of newborn rat motor neurons and demonstrated that local
application of CNTF prevents the degeneration of the corresponding cell bodies.

DOI: 10.1038/345440a0 
PMID: 2342575  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Nature. 1990 May 31;345(6274):437-40.

Odour-modulated collective network oscillations of olfactory interneurons in a
terrestrial mollusc.

Gelperin A(1), Tank DW.

Author information: 
(1)Biophysics Research Department, AT&T Bell Laboratories, Murray Hill, New
Jersey 07974.

Determination of the dynamical structure of neural circuits--the general
principles of how neural activity varies with time and manipulates
information--is a prerequisite to understanding their computational function.
Rhythmically active or oscillating neural circuits are particularly interesting
dynamical structures, as rhythms and oscillations are a prominent feature of
mammalian central nervous system electrophysiology. Coherent oscillations by
networks of interneurons are observed in the vertebrate olfactory system and have
recently been described in mammalian visual cortex. These interneuronal networks 
display oscillations in local field potential (LFP) and probability of producing 
action potentials that are highly correlated between subcircuits sharing the same
stimulus features. Much less is known about the existence and importance of
network oscillations in the higher centres of invertebrates. Here we report that 
a network of olfactory interneurons in the cerebral ganglion of the terrestrial
mollusc Limax maximus also displays coherent oscillations in LFP which are
modified by odour input. This dynamical structure could be central to the odour
recognition and odour learning ability of Limax.

DOI: 10.1038/345437a0 
PMID: 2342574  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Nature. 1990 May 31;345(6274):434-7.

Horizontal and vertical components of head movement are controlled by distinct
neural circuits in the barn owl.

Masino T(1), Knudsen EI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Stanford University School of Medicine, California
94305-5401.

To generate behaviour, the brain must transform sensory information into signals 
that are appropriate to control movement. Sensory and motor coordinate frames are
fundamentally different, however: sensory coordinates are based on the
spatiotemporal patterns of activity arising from the various sense organs,
whereas motor coordinates are based on the pulling directions of muscles or
groups of muscles. Results from psychophysical experiments suggest that in the
process of transforming sensory information into motor control signals, the brain
encodes movements in abstract or extrinsic coordinate frames, that is ones not
closely related to the geometry of the sensory apparatus or of the
skeletomusculature. Here we show that an abstract code underlies movements of the
head by the barn owl. Specifically, the data show that subsequent to the
retinotopic code for space in the optic tectum yet before the motor neuron code
for muscle tensions there exists a code for head movement in which upward,
downward, leftward and rightward components of movement are controlled by four
functionally distinct neural circuits. Such independent coding of orthogonal
components of movement may be a common intermediate step in the transformation of
sensation into behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/345434a0 
PMID: 2342573  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Nature. 1990 May 31;345(6274):410-6.

The identification and suppression of inherited neurodegeneration in
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Chalfie M(1), Wolinsky E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Columbia University, New York, New York
10027.

The dominant mutation deg-1(u38) results in a toxic gene product that leads to
the late-onset degeneration of a small number of neurons in the nematode
Caenorhabditis elegans. Both intragenic and extragenic mutations as well as
changes in wild-type gene dosage can delay or block the time of onset of the
neuronal deaths. The deg-1 gene has been cloned and a partial complementary DNA
reveals that the gene encodes a novel protein that may act as a membrane
receptor. Because the late-onset loss of specific sets of neurons, often as a
result of dominant mutations, is characteristic of several human
neurodegenerative diseases, the analysis of the deg-1 gene and its suppressors
may provide a means of understanding the mechanisms underlying some of these
human diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/345410a0 
PMID: 2342572  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Nature. 1990 May 31;345(6274):442-4.

The murine mutation osteopetrosis is in the coding region of the macrophage
colony stimulating factor gene.

Yoshida H(1), Hayashi S, Kunisada T, Ogawa M, Nishikawa S, Okamura H, Sudo T,
Shultz LD, Nishikawa S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Kumamoto University Medical School, Japan.

Mice homozygous for the recessive mutation osteopetrosis (op) on chromosome 3
have a restricted capacity for bone remodelling, and are severely deficient in
mature macrophages and osteoclasts. Both cell populations originate from a common
haemopoietic progenitor. As op/op mice are not cured by transplants of normal
bone marrow cells, the defects in op/op mice may be associated with an abnormal
haematopoietic microenvironment rather than with an intrinsic defect in
haematopoietic progenitors. To investigate the molecular and biochemical basis of
the defects caused by the op mutation, we established primary fibroblast cell
lines from op/op mice and tested the ability of these cell lines to support the
proliferation of macrophage progenitors. We show that op/op fibroblasts are
defective in production of functional macrophage colony-stimulating factor
(M-CSF), although its messenger RNA (Csfm mRNA) is present at normal levels. This
defect in M-CSF production and the recent mapping of the Csfm structural gene
near op on chromosome 3 suggest that op is a mutation within the Csfm gene
itself. We have sequenced Csfm complementary DNA prepared from op/op fibroblasts 
and found a single base pair insertion in the coding region of the Csfm gene that
generates a stop codon 21 base pairs downstream. Thus, the op mutation is within 
the Csfm coding region and we conclude that the pathological changes in this
mutant result from the absence of M-CSF.

DOI: 10.1038/345442a0 
PMID: 2188141  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Nature. 1990 May 31;345(6274):456-8.

Telomere-telomere recombination provides an express pathway for telomere
acquisition.

Wang SS(1), Zakian VA.

Author information: 
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington 98104.

DNA termini from Tetrahymena and Oxytricha, which bear C4A2 and C4A4 repeats
respectively, can support telomere formation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by
serving as substrates for the addition of yeast telomeric C1-3A repeats.
Previously, we showed that linear plasmids with 108 base pairs of C4A4 DNA
(YLp108CA) efficiently acquired telomeres, whereas plasmids containing 28-64 base
pairs of C4A4 DNA also promoted telomere formation, but with reduced efficiency. 
Although many of the C4A4 termini on these plasmids underwent recombination with 
a C4A2 terminus, the mechanism of telomere-telomere recombination was not
established. We now report the sequence of the C4A4 ends from the linear
plasmids. The results provide strong evidence for a novel recombination process
involving a gene conversion event that requires little homology, occurs at or
near the boundary of telomeric and nontelomeric DNA, and resembles the
recombination process involved in bacteriophage T4 DNA replication.

DOI: 10.1038/345456a0 
PMID: 2111466  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Nature. 1990 May 31;345(6274):452-6.

Circular DNA is a product of the immunoglobulin class switch rearrangement.

von Schwedler U(1), Jäck HM, Wabl M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Radiobiology and Environmental Health, University of California,
San Francisco 94143-0414.

The class of immunoglobulin is defined by the constant region of its heavy chain.
When a B lymphocyte switches the class of heavy chain it produces, the constant
region of mu-type heavy chain is replaced; this occurs through a DNA
rearrangement that brings the gene segment encoding the new constant region close
to the VDJ segment encoding the variable region. The pre-B-cell line 18-81, which
switches from heavy chain mu to gamma 2b production in culture, occasionally
abnormally rearranges the heavy chain locus so that DNA sequences between the
switch regions of mu and gamma 2b are inverted. Because looping-out is an
intermediate step in generating an inversion, the switch rearrangement could
occur by looping-out and deletion. Provided that recombination is reciprocal,
this would produce a circle of DNA. Indeed, circular DNA molecules have been
isolated as products of rearrangement among gene segments encoding the variable
regions of the T-cell receptor and of the immunoglobulin heavy chain and light
chain. But whereas the breakpoints for the variable region rearrangement are
precisely defined, the breakpoints for any given heavy chain class switch are
scattered over a length of greater than 6 kilobases, including both switch
regions. We have now isolated circular DNA containing the sequences deleted by
class-switching, thereby showing that the immunoglobulin heavy chain class switch
occurs through looping-out and deletion.

DOI: 10.1038/345452a0 
PMID: 2111465  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Nature. 1990 May 31;345(6274):447-9.

Morphological transformation of human keratinocytes expressing the LMP gene of
Epstein-Barr virus.

Fåhraeus R(1), Rymo L, Rhim JS, Klein G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Tumor Biology, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

The association of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) with nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC)
has been known for some time, but the precise role of EBV in this cancer is
poorly understood, due partly to the lack of an in vitro system for studying NPC 
cells and the effect of EBV on epithelial cells. Biopsies of NPC tumours have
revealed expression of the EBV latent membrane protein (LMP) in 65% of cases,
suggesting that in at least some NPC tumours LMP may contribute to cell
transformation. Here we address the question of the effect of LMP expression on
epithelial cells. Transfection of an immortalized, non-tumorigenic keratinocyte
cell line (RHEK-1) with the LMP gene causes a striking morphological
transformation: the originally flat, polygonal colonies change to bundles of
spindle-shaped cells that form multilayer foci, and cytokeratin expression is
down-regulated. Our results suggest that LMP expression may be an important
causal factor in the development of NPC.

DOI: 10.1038/345447a0 
PMID: 1692971  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Nature. 1990 May 24;345(6273):365-6.

Antibody-directed drug discovery.

Wolff ME(1), McPherson A.

Author information: 
(1)ImmunoPharmaceutics, Inc., San Diego, California 92127.

By harnessing the remarkable power of the immune system to access the
three-dimensional chemical information sequestered in target sites for drug
ligands, antibody-directed drug discovery speeds the design of new therapeutic
entities.

DOI: 10.1038/345365a0 
PMID: 2342566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Nature. 1990 May 24;345(6273):353-5.

Two adjacent MyoD1-binding sites regulate expression of the acetylcholine
receptor alpha-subunit gene.

Piette J(1), Bessereau JL, Huchet M, Changeux JP.

Author information: 
(1)UA Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique D1284, Département des
Biotechnologies, Institut Pasteur, Paris, France.

Several genes encoding putative myogenic regulatory factors have been isolated on
the basis of their ability to convert nonmuscle cells into myoblasts. Four of
these genes code for nuclear proteins that belong to a larger family
characterized by a conserved helix-loop-helix motif required for DNA-binding and 
dimerization. At least one protein, MyoD1, can function as a transcription factor
and activate muscle-specific genes during differentiation. But the promoter of
the delta-subunit gene of the mouse acetylcholine receptor (AChR) was recently
reported to be functional in the absence of MyoD1 binding sites and it has been
suggested that the genes coding for the AChR could be regulated independently of 
MyoD1 protein. Here, we identify two functional MyoD1-binding sites in the
muscle-specific enhancer of the chicken AChR alpha-subunit gene that are
essential for full activity in transfected myotubes.

DOI: 10.1038/345353a0 
PMID: 2342565  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Nature. 1990 May 24;345(6273):359-61.

How different eukaryotic transcriptional activators can cooperate promiscuously.

Lin YS(1), Carey M, Ptashne M, Green MR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02138.

A striking characteristic of many different eukaryotic transcriptional activators
is their ability to activate gene expression synergistically. Thus, for example, 
the rat glucocorticoid receptor and the yeast activator GAL4 cooperatively
activate transcription of a mammalian gene bearing binding sites for each of the 
proteins: activation by both activators is greater than the sum of the effects of
each working alone. It would seem unlikely that these two proteins from such
different organisms directly interact; rather, the idea has been suggested that
these and at least some other eukaryotic activators can work synergistically by
simultaneously touching some part of the transcriptional machinery. An important 
prediction of this idea is that synergy between two such activators would be seen
under conditions where each is present at concentrations sufficiently high to
saturate its site on DNA. In this paper we use transcription in vitro to confirm 
that prediction using a derivative of the yeast activator GAL4 and the mammalian 
transcription factor ATF. The accompanying paper describes a similar conclusion
comparing the effects of singly and multiply bound GAL4 molecules.

DOI: 10.1038/345359a0 
PMID: 2188137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Nature. 1990 May 24;345(6273):356-9.

Genetic organization of a chimpanzee lentivirus related to HIV-1.

Huet T(1), Cheynier R, Meyerhans A, Roelants G, Wain-Hobson S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Biologie et Immunologie Moléculaires des Rétrovirus, Institut
Pasteur, Paris, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 May 24;345(6273):288-9.

Simian immunodeficiency viruses have been isolated from four species of monkey,
the 'captive' macaque and mangabey and the 'feral' African green monkey and
mandrill. While none of these viruses is a replica of HIV-1, the macaque and
mangabey viruses represent correct genetic models for HIV-2, possessing exactly
the same complement of genes. Recently a lentivirus has been identified in two
wild chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes troglodytes) in Gabon, west equatorial Africa, 
and isolated from one of them. This virus is referred to as SIVCPZ. Sera from
these animals cross reacted with all the HIV-1 proteins including the envelope
glycoproteins. Here, we describe the molecular cloning and sequencing of an
infectious proviral clone of SIVCPZ. The overall genetic organization was the
same as that of HIV-1, but phylogenetic analysis revealed that the sequence was
more divergent than any HIV-1 sequence reported so far. The vpu gene product,
found only in the type 1 viruses, was particularly different (64% divergent to
HIV-1BRU) suggesting that the SIVCPZ represents a distinct subtype. These
findings indicate that there is a larger pool of simian lentiviruses than
previously suspected and revives debate as to the origins of HIV-1.

DOI: 10.1038/345356a0 
PMID: 2188136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


361. Nature. 1990 May 24;345(6273):315-9.

Deficiency of a glycoprotein component of the dystrophin complex in dystrophic
muscle.

Ervasti JM(1), Ohlendieck K, Kahl SD, Gaver MG, Campbell KP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, University of Iowa College of
Medicine, Iowa City 52242.

Dystrophin, the protein encoded by the Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) gene,
exists in a large oligomeric complex. We show here that four glycoproteins are
integral components of the dystrophin complex and that the concentration of one
of these is greatly reduced in DMD patients. Thus, the absence of dystrophin may 
lead to the loss of a dystrophin-associated glycoprotein, and the reduction in
this glycoprotein may be one of the first stages of the molecular pathogenesis of
muscular dystrophy.

DOI: 10.1038/345315a0 
PMID: 2188135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Nature. 1990 May 24;345(6273):361-4.

A mechanism for synergistic activation of a mammalian gene by GAL4 derivatives.

Carey M(1), Lin YS, Green MR, Ptashne M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138.

In prokaryotes and eukaryotes many gene activators work synergistically. For
example, two dimers of lambda repressor interact to promote binding of these
proteins to DNA, a reaction that is crucial at the repressor concentrations found
in lysogens. In this case one of the bound dimers activates transcription,
evidently by touching RNA polymerase. In another example, the yeast
transcriptional activator GAL4, which can stimulate transcription in many
eukaryotes, binds to multiple sites on DNA to activate transcription
synergistically; the presence of two such sites can elicit a level of
transcription more than twice that found with a single site. In this paper we
show that synergistic activation by each of several GAL4 derivatives involves a
mechanism different from that illustrated by the lambda repressor: multiple
activator molecules can work synergistically under conditions in which their
binding sites on DNA are saturated. The accompanying paper shows that under
similar conditions of activator excess, GAL4 derivatives work synergistically
with a heterologous mammalian gene activator. These results support the idea that
eukaryotic activators can cooperate not by directly interacting but by
simultaneously touching some component(s) of the transcriptional machinery.

DOI: 10.1038/345361a0 
PMID: 2160609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Nature. 1990 May 24;345(6273):350-3.

Migration of myoblasts across basal lamina during skeletal muscle development.

Hughes SM(1), Blau HM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Stanford University School of Medicine, California
94305-5332.

Basal lamina is a sheet of extracellular matrix that separates cells into
topologically distinct groups during morphogenesis and is thought to form a
barrier to cell migration. We have examined whether, during normal muscle
development, myoblasts--mononucleate muscle precursor cells--can cross the basal 
lamina that surrounds each multinucleate muscle fibre. We marked myoblasts in
vivo by injecting replication-defective retroviral vectors encoding LacZ into
muscle tissue and analysed the fate of their progeny by the expression of
beta-galactosidase. A dual labelling method with broad application to retroviral 
lineage-marking studies was developed to ensure that most clusters of labelled
cells were clones derived from a single precursor cell. Most of the myoblasts
that were infected at a late stage of rat hindlimb development, when each fibre
with its satellite myoblasts is individually encased in a basal lamina sheath,
gave rise to clones that contributed to several labelled fibres. Our results show
that myoblasts from healthy fibres migrate across basal lamina during normal
development and could contribute to the repair of fibres damaged by injury or
disease.

DOI: 10.1038/345350a0 
PMID: 2111464  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Nature. 1990 May 24;345(6273):309-15.

Time-resolved X-ray crystallographic study of the conformational change in Ha-Ras
p21 protein on GTP hydrolysis.

Schlichting I(1), Almo SC, Rapp G, Wilson K, Petratos K, Lentfer A, Wittinghofer 
A, Kabsch W, Pai EF, Petsko GA, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Biophysik, Max-Planck-Institut für Medizinische Forschung,
Heidelberg, FRG.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 May 24;345(6273):294-5.

Crystals of Ha-Ras p21 with caged GTP at the active site have been used to
investigate the conformational changes of p21 on GTP hydrolysis. The structure of
the short-lived p21.GTP complex was determined by Laue diffraction methods. After
GTP hydrolysis, substantial structural changes occur in the parts of the molecule
implicated in the interaction with GTPase-activating protein. The trigger for
this process seems to be a change in coordination of the active-site Mg2+ ion as 
a result of loss of the gamma-phosphate of GTP.

DOI: 10.1038/345309a0 
PMID: 2111463  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Nature. 1990 May 24;345(6273):346-7.

Nitric oxide as an inhibitory non-adrenergic non-cholinergic neurotransmitter.

Bult H(1), Boeckxstaens GE, Pelckmans PA, Jordaens FH, Van Maercke YM, Herman AG.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Antwerp (UIA),
Wilrijk, Belgium.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Sep 13;347(6289):131-2.

Inhibitory non-adrenergic non-cholinergic (NANC) nerves are thought to be
important in the autonomic innervation of the gastrointestinal tract and other
organ systems. The nature of their neurotransmitter is still debated. Speculation
that nitric oxide (NO), formed from L-arginine in neuronal structures and other
cells, could act as a neurotransmitter, is not yet supported by demonstration of 
its release upon nerve stimulation. Using a superfusion bioassay, we report the
release of a vasorelaxant factor upon stimulation of the NANC nerves in the
canine ileocolonic junction. Several pieces of evidence, including the
selectivity of the bioassay tissues, chemical instability, inactivation by
superoxide anion and haemoglobin, inhibition by NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA) and
potentiation by L-arginine all indicated that NO accounted for the biological
activity of this transferable NANC factor.

DOI: 10.1038/345346a0 
PMID: 1971425  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Nature. 1990 May 24;345(6273):344-6.

Limited heterogeneity of rearranged T-cell receptor V alpha transcripts in brains
of multiple sclerosis patients.

Oksenberg JR(1), Stuart S, Begovich AB, Bell RB, Erlich HA, Steinman L, Bernard
CC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Stanford University, California 94305.

Erratum in
    Nature. 1991 Sep 5;353(6339):94.

The identification of activated T cells in the brain of individuals with multiple
sclerosis (MS) indicates that these cells are critical in the pathogenesis of
this disease. In an attempt to elucidate the nature of the lymphocytic
infiltration, we used the polymerase chain reaction to amplify T-cell antigen
receptor (TCR) V alpha sequences from transcripts derived from MS brain lesions. 
In each of three MS brains, only two to four rearranged TCR V alpha transcripts
were detected. No V alpha transcripts could be found in control brains. Sequence 
analysis of transcripts encoded by the V alpha 12.1 region showed rearrangements 
to a limited number of J alpha region segments. These results imply that TCR V
alpha gene expression in MS brain lesions is restricted.

DOI: 10.1038/345344a0 
PMID: 1971424  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Nature. 1990 May 24;345(6273):347-50.

Proton inhibition of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in cerebellar neurons.

Traynelis SF(1), Cull-Candy SG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University College London, UK.

Mammalian neurons contain at least three types of excitatory amino-acid
receptors, selectively activated by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) or aspartate,
(S)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole proprionate ((S)-AMPA) and
kainate. An important aspect of NMDA receptors is their regulation by a variety
of factors such as glycine, Mg2+ and Zn2+ that are present in vivo. We show here 
that NMDA receptor responses are selectively inhibited by protons, with a 50%
inhibitory concentration (IC50) that is close to physiological pH, implying that 
NMDA receptors are not fully active under normal conditions. (S)-AMPA and kainate
responses remain unchanged at similar pH levels. Proton inhibition is
voltage-insensitive and does not result either from fast channel block, a change 
in channel conductance, or an increase in the 50% excitatory concentration (EC50)
of aspartate/NMDA or glycine. Instead, protons seem to decrease markedly the
opening frequency of 30-50 pS NMDA channels, and reduce the relative proportion
of longer bursts. This feature of NMDA receptors could be relevant to neurotoxic 
activation of NMDA receptors during ischaemia, as well as to seizure generation, 
as extracellular proton changes occur during both of these pathological
situations. Furthermore, these results may have implications for normal NMDA
receptor function as transient changes in extracellular protons occur during
synaptic transmission.

DOI: 10.1038/345347a0 
PMID: 1692970  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Nature. 1990 May 17;345(6272):268-70.

The gain of two chloroplast tRNA introns marks the green algal ancestors of land 
plants.

Manhart JR(1), Palmer JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Texas A&M University, College Station 77843.

The relationship of green algae to land plants has greatly interested botanists
for more than a century. In recent years, several characters, particularly
ultrastructural ones, have been used to define a green algal group (Charophyceae)
from which land plants are thought to have arisen. Here we provide the first
molecular genetic evidence in support of the charophycean origin of land plants. 
Group II introns have previously been found in both the tRNAAla and tRNAIle genes
of all land plant chloroplast DNAs examined, whereas all algae and eubacteria
examined have uninterrupted genes. The distribution of these introns in
Coleochaete, Nitella and Spirogyra, members of the Charophyceae, confirms that
these taxa are part of the lineage that gave rise to land plants. Furthermore,
the intron data place Coleochaete and Nitella closer to land plants than
Spirogyra. These introns were most probably acquired by the chloroplast genome
more than 400-500 million years ago, the time of land plant origin.

DOI: 10.1038/345268a0 
PMID: 2333097  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Nature. 1990 May 17;345(6272):260-3.

Phospholipid binding by a synaptic vesicle protein homologous to the regulatory
region of protein kinase C.

Perin MS(1), Fried VA, Mignery GA, Jahn R, Südhof TC.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, Dallas 75235.

Neurotransmitters are released at synapses by the Ca2(+)-regulated exocytosis of 
synaptic vesicles, which are specialized secretory organelles that store high
concentrations of neurotransmitters. The rapid Ca2(+)-triggered fusion of
synaptic vesicles is presumably mediated by specific proteins that must interact 
with Ca2+ and the phospholipid bilayer. We now report that the cytoplasmic domain
of p65, a synaptic vesicle-specific protein that binds calmodulin contains an
internally repeated sequence that is homologous to the regulatory C2-region of
protein kinase C (PKC). The cytoplasmic domain of recombinant p65 binds acidic
phospholipids with a specificity indicating an interaction of p65 with the
hydrophobic core as well as the headgroups of the phospholipids. The binding
specificity resembles PKC, except that p65 also binds calmodulin, placing the
C2-regions in a context of potential Ca2(+)-regulation that is different from
PKC. This is a novel homology between a cellular protein and the regulatory
domain of protein kinase C. The structure and properties of p65 suggest that it
may have a role in mediating membrane interactions during synaptic vesicle
exocytosis.

DOI: 10.1038/345260a0 
PMID: 2333096  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Nature. 1990 May 17;345(6272):229-33.

Molecular genetic basis of the histo-blood group ABO system.

Yamamoto F(1), Clausen H, White T, Marken J, Hakomori S.

Author information: 
(1)Biomembrane Institute, Seattle, Washington.

The histo-blood group ABO, the major human alloantigen system, involves three
carbohydrate antigens (ABH). A, B and AB individuals express glycosyltransferase 
activities converting the H antigen into A or B antigens, whereas O(H)
individuals lack such activity. Here we present a molecular basis for the ABO
genotypes. The A and B genes differ in a few single-base substitutions, changing 
four amino-acid residues that may cause differences in A and B transferase
specificity. A critical single-base deletion was found in the O gene, which
results in an entirely different, inactive protein incapable of modifying the H
antigen.

DOI: 10.1038/345229a0 
PMID: 2333095  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Nature. 1990 May 17;345(6272):270-3.

Human U2 snRNA can function in pre-mRNA splicing in yeast.

Shuster EO(1), Guthrie C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California, San
Francisco 94143.

The removal of introns from messenger RNA precursors requires five small nuclear 
RNAs (snRNAs), contained within ribonucleoprotein particles (snRNPs), which
complex with the pre-mRNA and other associated factors to form the spliceosome.
In both yeast and mammals, the U2 snRNA base pairs with sequences surrounding the
site of lariat formation. Binding of U2 snRNP to the highly degenerate
branchpoint sequence in mammalian introns is absolutely dependent on an auxiliary
protein, U2AF, which recognizes a polypyrimidine stretch adjacent to the 3'
splice site. The absence of this sequence motif in yeast introns has strengthened
arguments that the two systems are fundamentally different. Deletion analyses of 
the yeast U2 gene have confirmed that the highly conserved 5' domain is
essential, although the adjacent approximately 950 nucleotides can be deleted
without any phenotypic consequence. A 3'-terminal domain of approximately 100
nucleotides is also required for wild-type growth rates; the highly conserved
terminal loop within this domain (loop IV) may provide specific binding contacts 
for two U2-specific snRNP proteins. We have replaced the single copy yeast U2
(yU2) gene with human U2 (hU2), expecting that weak or no complementation would
provide an assay for cloning additional splicing factors, such as U2AF. We report
here that hU2 can complement the yeast deletion with surprising efficiency. The
interactions governing spliceosome assembly and intron recognition are thus more 
conserved than previously suspected. Paradoxically, the conserved loop IV
sequence is dispensable in yeast.

DOI: 10.1038/345270a0 
PMID: 2185425  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Nature. 1990 May 17;345(6272):255-8.

Several alleles of the multidrug-resistance gene are closely linked to
chloroquine resistance in Plasmodium falciparum.

Foote SJ(1), Kyle DE, Martin RK, Oduola AM, Forsyth K, Kemp DJ, Cowman AF.

Author information: 
(1)Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 May 17;345(6272):202-3.

The lethal form of human malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum is virtually
uncontrollable in many areas because of the development of drug resistance, in
particular chloroquine resistance (CQR). CQR is biologically similar to the
multiple drug resistance phenotype (MDR) of mammalian tumour cells, as both
involve expulsion of drug from the cell and both can be reversed by calcium
channel antagonists. A homologue (pfmdr1) of the mammalian multidrug resistance
gene has been implicated in CQR because it is amplified in some CQR isolates of
P. falciparum as is an mdr gene in MDR tumour cells. We show here that the
complete sequences of pfmdr1 genes from 2 CQ sensitive (CQS) P. falciparum
isolates are identical. In 5 CQR isolates, 1-4 key nucleotide differences
resulted in amino acid substitutions. On the basis of these substitutions, we
have correctly predicted the CQS/CQR status of a further 34 out of 36 isolates.
This is a paradox as CQR arises much less frequently than would be predicted if
single point mutations were sufficient. We conclude that a mutated pfmdr1 gene is
one of at least two mutated genes required for CQR.

DOI: 10.1038/345255a0 
PMID: 2185424  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Nature. 1990 May 17;345(6272):224-9.

Nuclear receptor that identifies a novel retinoic acid response pathway.

Mangelsdorf DJ(1), Ong ES, Dyck JA, Evans RM.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La
Jolla, California 92138-9216.

Molecular cloning and transcriptional activation studies have revealed a new
protein similar to the steroid hormone receptors and which responds specifically 
to vitamin A metabolites. This protein is substantially different in primary
structure and ligand specificity from the products of the previously described
retinoic acid receptor gene family. By indicating the existence of an additional 
pathway through which retinoic acid may exert its effects, these data lead to a
re-evaluation of retinoid physiology.

DOI: 10.1038/345224a0 
PMID: 2159111  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Nature. 1990 May 17;345(6272):266-8.

Localization of cytoplasmic dynein to mitotic spindles and kinetochores.

Steuer ER(1), Wordeman L, Schroer TA, Sheetz MP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63110.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 May 17;345(6272):206-7.

What is the origin of the forces generating chromosome and spindle movements in
mitosis? Both microtubule dynamics and microtubule-dependent motors have been
proposed as the source of these motor forces. Cytoplasmic dynein and kinesin are 
two soluble proteins that power membranous organelle movements on microtubules.
Kinesin directs movement of organelles to the 'plus' end of microtubules, and is 
found at the mitotic spindle in sea urchin embryos, but not in mammalian cells.
Cytoplasmic dynein translocates organelles to the 'minus' end of microtubules,
and is composed of two heavy chains and several light chains. We report here that
monoclonal antibodies to two of these subunits and to another polypeptide that
associates with dynein localize the protein to the mitotic spindle and to the
kinetochores of isolated chromosomes, suggesting that cytoplasmic dynein is
important in powering movements of the spindle and chromosomes in dividing cells.

DOI: 10.1038/345266a0 
PMID: 2139718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Nature. 1990 May 17;345(6272):263-5.

Cytoplasmic dynein is localized to kinetochores during mitosis.

Pfarr CM(1), Coue M, Grissom PM, Hays TS, Porter ME, McIntosh JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, University of
Colorado, Boulder 80309.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 May 17;345(6272):206-7.

Recent evidence suggests that the force for poleward movement of chromosomes
during mitosis is generated at or close to the kinetochores. Chromosome movement 
depends on motion relative to microtubules, but the identities of the motors
remain uncertain. One candidate for a mitotic motor is dynein, a large multimeric
enzyme which can move along microtubules toward their slow growing end. Dyneins
were originally found in axonemes of cilia and flagella where they power
microtubule sliding. Recently, cytoplasmic dyneins have also been found, and
specific antibodies have been raised against them. The cellular localization of
dynein has previously been studied with several antibodies raised against
flagellar dynein, but the relevance of these data to the distribution of
cytoplasmic dynein is not known. Antibodies raised against cytoplasmic dyneins
have shown localization of dynein antigens to the mitotic spindles in
Caenorhabditis elegans embryos (Lye et al., personal communication) and punctate 
cytoplasmic structures in Dictyostelium amoebae. Using antibodies that recognize 
subunits of cytoplasmic dyneins, we show here that during mitosis, cytoplasmic
dynein antigens concentrate near the kinetochores, centrosomes and spindle fibres
of HeLa and PtK1 cells, whereas at interphase they are distributed throughout the
cytoplasm. This is consistent with the hypothesis that cytoplasmic dynein is a
mitotic motor.

DOI: 10.1038/345263a0 
PMID: 2139717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Nature. 1990 May 17;345(6272):250-3.

Regulated expression and binding of three VLA (beta 1) integrin receptors on T
cells.

Shimizu Y(1), Van Seventer GA, Horgan KJ, Shaw S.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Immunology Branch, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes
of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

Regulated adhesion of T cells to extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins is likely to
be essential in T cell migration. Constitutive binding of various other cell
types to ECM components is mediated by members of the VLA (very late antigen)
subfamily of integrins. We describe here the regulated binding of resting CD4+
human T cells to ECM through three VLA integrins: VLA-4 and VLA-5 binding to
fibronectin (FN), and a novel pathway of VLA-6 binding to laminin (LN). Binding
to ECM is regulated in two ways. First, unlike other VLA-mediated interactions,
VLA binding activity of the T cells is rapidly and dramatically augmented with
cell activation without change in level of expression of the VLA molecules.
Second, binding is regulated with T-cell differentiation; memory T cells express 
three- to four-fold more VLA-4, VLA-5, and VLA-6 than do naive cells, and bind
more efficiently through them to FN and LN.

DOI: 10.1038/345250a0 
PMID: 2139716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Nature. 1990 May 17;345(6272):273-6.

A regular pattern of two types of 100-residue motif in the sequence of titin.

Labeit S(1), Barlow DP, Gautel M, Gibson T, Holt J, Hsieh CL, Francke U, Leonard 
K, Wardale J, Whiting A, et al.

Author information: 
(1)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Heidelberg, FRG.

Titin is the largest polypeptide yet described (relative molecular mass
approximately 3 x 10(6); refs 1, 2) and an abundant protein of striated muscle.
Its molecules are string-like and in vivo span from the M to Z-lines. I-band
regions of titin are thought to make elastic connections between the thick
filament and the Z-line, thereby forming a third type of sarcomere filament.
These would centre the A-band in the sarcomere and provide structural continuity 
in relaxed myofibrils. The A-band region of titin seems to be bound to the thick 
filament, where it has been proposed to act as a 'molecular ruler' regulating
filament length and assembly. Here, we show that partial titin complementary DNAs
encode a regular pattern of two types of 100-residue motif, each of which
probably folds into a separate domain type. Such motifs are present in several
evolutionarily divergent muscle proteins, all of which are likely to interact
with myosin. One or both of the domain types is therefore likely to bind to
myosin.

DOI: 10.1038/345273a0 
PMID: 2129545  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Nature. 1990 May 17;345(6272):258-60.

Selective killing of hepatitis B envelope antigen-specific B cells by class
I-restricted, exogenous antigen-specific T lymphocytes.

Barnaba V(1), Franco A, Alberti A, Benvenuto R, Balsano F.

Author information: 
(1)Fondazione Andrea Cesalpino, Università La Sapienza, Roma, Italy.

Specific B lymphocytes can act as very efficient antigen-presenting cells. They
bind antigen with high affinity via their immunoglobulin receptors, process it
through the class II major histocompatibility complex (MHC) pathway, and present 
its fragments to class II-restricted T lymphocytes. In general, exogenous
antigens and noninfectious viral particles enter the class II pathway and are
selectively associated with class II MHC molecules. The presentation of an
exogenous antigen in association with class I molecules has been reported for
only a few antigens, including the hepatitis B envelope antigen (HBenvAg). Here
we demonstrate that antigen-specific B cells can efficiently deliver HBenvAg to
the class I pathway, presenting its fragments to class I-restricted cytotoxic T
lymphocytes (CTLs) which kill the specific B cells. This could represent a
mechanism of suppression of neutralizing anti-hepatitis B virus (HBV) antibody
response, a phenomenon that accompanies the development of the chronic
HBV-carrier state.

DOI: 10.1038/345258a0 
PMID: 2110296  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Nature. 1990 May 17;345(6272):253-5.

Chloroquine resistance not linked to mdr-like genes in a Plasmodium falciparum
cross.

Wellems TE(1), Panton LJ, Gluzman IY, do Rosario VE, Gwadz RW, Walker-Jonah A,
Krogstad DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Parasitic Diseases, National Institute of Allergy, Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 May 17;345(6272):202-3.

Chloroquine is thought to act against falciparum malaria by accumulating in the
acid vesicles of the parasite and interfering with their function. Parasites
resistant to chloroquine expel the drug rapidly in an unaltered form, thereby
reducing levels of accumulation in the vesicles. The discovery that verapamil
partially reverses chloroquine resistance in vitro led to the proposal that
efflux may involve an ATP-driven P-glycoprotein pump similar to that in mammalian
multidrug-resistant (mdr) tumor cell lines. Indeed, Plasmodium falciparum
contains at least two mdr-like genes, one of which has been suggested to confer
the chloroquine resistant (CQR) phenotype. To determine if either of these genes 
is linked to chloroquine resistance, we performed a genetic cross between CQR and
chloroquine-susceptible (CQS) clones of P. falciparum. Examination of 16
independent recombinant progeny indicated that the rapid efflux phenotype is
controlled by a single gene or a closely linked group of genes. But, there was no
linkage between the rapid efflux, CQR phenotype and either of the mdr-like P.
falciparum genes or amplification of those genes. These data indicate that the
genetic locus governing chloroquine efflux and resistance is independent of the
known mdr-like genes.

DOI: 10.1038/345253a0 
PMID: 1970614  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Nature. 1990 May 10;345(6271):167-70.

Abnormal sexual development in transgenic mice chronically expressing müllerian
inhibiting substance.

Behringer RR(1), Cate RL, Froelick GJ, Palmiter RD, Brinster RL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Reproductive Physiology, School of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 19104.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 May 10;345(6271):111.

Müllerian inhibiting substance (MIS), also known as anti-Müllerian hormone, is a 
glycoprotein normally secreted by the Sertoli cells of the fetal and adult testis
and by granulosa cells of the postnatal ovary. The production of MIS in the male 
fetus brings about the regression of the Müllerian ducts, the anlagen of the
uterus, oviducts, and upper vagina. In addition, purified MIS induces the
formation of seminiferous cord-like structures in fetal rat ovaries cultured in
vitro, suggesting that MIS may influence testicular differentiation. We have
produced transgenic mice chronically expressing human MIS under the control of
the mouse metallothionein-1 promoter to investigate its role during sexual
development. In females, chronic expression led to the inhibition of Müllerian
duct differentiation, resulting in a blind vagina and no uterus or oviducts. At
birth the ovaries had fewer germ cells than normal; during the next two weeks
germ cells were lost and the somatic cells became organized into structures
resembling seminiferous tubules. Apparently, these structures degenerate as they 
are undetectable in adult females. The majority of transgenic males developed
normally. But in two lines with the highest levels of MIS expression, some males 
showed feminization of the external genitalia, impairment of Wolffian duct
development, and undescended testes. These results suggest that MIS has several
distinct roles in mammalian sexual development.

DOI: 10.1038/345167a0 
PMID: 2336108  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Nature. 1990 May 10;345(6271):182-4.

Probing the calcium-induced conformational transition of troponin C with
site-directed mutants.

Fujimori K(1), Sorenson M, Herzberg O, Moult J, Reinach FC.

Author information: 
(1)Departmento de Bioquimica, Universidade de Sao Pauio, Brazil.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 May 10;345(6271):116-7.

The contraction of skeletal muscle is regulated by calcium binding to troponin C 
(TnC). TnC consists of two spatially independent domains, each of which contains 
two metal ion binding sites. Calcium binding to the regulatory sites of the
N-terminal domain triggers muscle contraction by a series of conformational
changes. Site-directed mutagenesis offers a means of elucidating the links in
this signal path between TnC and actin-myosin crossbridges. Such mapping is
possible if the mutants shift the equilibrium between 'on' and 'off' states of
the regulatory complex while maintaining the coupling between calcium binding and
tension development. Candidate amino-acid residues for yielding this information 
would be in positions remote from the calcium-binding sites and from the site of 
development of tension. Analysis of the crystal structure of TnC and of the model
of the calcium-activated molecule has enabled us to identify two such residues:
Glu 57 and Glu 88. In separate experiments we have replaced each of these
residues by lysines. The resulting reduction in calcium affinity indicates that
these residues have a long-range effect on calcium binding. This result may
reflect the formation of a salt bridge between positions 57 and 88 that is not
present in the native molecule. Moreover, the level of tension recovery when the 
mutants are incorporated into muscle suggests that the interaction between TnC
and other muscle components has also been altered. Thus, these residues may
participate in the contraction signal transmission.

DOI: 10.1038/345182a0 
PMID: 2186281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Nature. 1990 May 10;345(6271):158-61.

Glucagon stimulates the cardiac Ca2+ current by activation of adenylyl cyclase
and inhibition of phosphodiesterase.

Méry PF(1), Brechler V, Pavoine C, Pecker F, Fischmeister R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Physiologie Cellulaire Cardiaque, INSERM U-241, Université de
Paris-Sud, France.

Glucagon exerts positive inotropic and chronotropic effects in the heart. Like
its glycogenolytic effect in liver cells, the cardiac effects of glucagon are
often correlated with adenylyl cyclase stimulation. Therefore, cyclic
AMP-dependent phosphorylation of L-type Ca2+ channels might be involved in the
inotropic effect of glucagon. There have been no reports, however, of the effects
of glucagon on the cardiac Ca2+ current (ICa). Also, the physiological effects of
glucagon could involve mechanisms other than stimulation of adenylyl cyclase.
Here we show that glucagon enhances ICa in frog and rat ventricular myocytes. The
effect of glucagon in rats resulted from a stimulation of adenylyl cyclase. In
frogs, however, the effect of glucagon on ICa was smaller and occurred at a
concentration tenfold lower than in rats, and adenylyl cyclase was not modified. 
In addition, cAMP potentiated the effect of glucagon on ICa in frog ventricle,
which correlated with the observed inhibition by glucagon of low-Km cAMP
phosphodiesterase activity. Therefore, this is an example of a hormone that
affects cardiac function in a similar way to a variety of synthetic cardiotonic
compounds, such as milrinone and Ro-20-1724. Inhibition of phosphodiesterase
activity by glucagon may be essential in animals in which glucagon increases
cardiac contractility but does not effectively stimulate adenylyl cyclase.

DOI: 10.1038/345158a0 
PMID: 2159595  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Nature. 1990 May 10;345(6271):175-6.

Bacillus subtilis expressing a haemolysin gene from Listeria monocytogenes can
grow in mammalian cells.

Bielecki J(1), Youngman P, Connelly P, Portnoy DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine,
Philadelphia 19104-6076.

Intracellular parasites can be classified into those that reside within a host
vacuole and those which grow directly in the host cytoplasm. Members of the
latter group, which includes Rickettsia, Shigellae, Trypanosoma cruzi, and
Listeria monocytogenes, possess haemolytic activity associated with the ability
to enter the host cytoplasm. Therefore mutants of L. monocytogenes lacking a
pore-forming haemolysin, listeriolysin O, do not escape from the endosomal
compartment and consequently fail to become established in the cytoplasm. To
examine the role of listeriolysin O, we cloned the structural gene for the L.
monocytogenes haemolysin, hlyA, into an asporogenic mutant of Bacillus subtilis
under the control of an IPTG-inducible promoter. After being internalized by the 
macrophage-like cell line J774, haemolytic B. subtilis disrupted the phagosomal
membrane and grew rapidly within the macrophage cytoplasm. These results show
that a single gene product is sufficient to convert a common soil bacterium into 
a parasite that can grow in the cytoplasm of a mammalian cell.

DOI: 10.1038/345175a0 
PMID: 2110628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Nature. 1990 May 10;345(6271):170-2.

Cryopreservation of Drosophila melanogaster embryos.

Steponkus PL(1), Myers SP, Lynch DV, Gardner L, Bronshteyn V, Leibo SP, Rall WF, 
Pitt RE, Lin TT, MacIntyre RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agronomy, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853.

There is an urgent need to preserve the ever-increasing number (greater than
30,000) of different genetic strains of D. melanogaster that are maintained in
national and international stock centres and in the laboratories of individual
investigators. In all cases, the stocks are maintained as adult populations and
require transfer to fresh medium every two to four weeks. This is not only costly
in terms of materials, labour and space, but unique strains are vulnerable to
accidental loss, contamination, and changes in genotype that can occur during
continuous culture through mutation, genetic drift or selection. Although
cryopreservation of Drosophila germ-plasm would be an enormous advantage, many
attempts using conventional procedures have been unsuccessful. D. melanogaster
embryos are refractory to conventional cryopreservation procedures because of the
contravening conditions required to minimize mortality resulting from both
intracellular ice formation and chilling injury at subzero temperatures. To
overcome these obstacles, we have developed a vitrification procedure that
precludes intracellular ice formation so that the embryos can be cooled and
warmed at ultra-rapid rates to minimize chilling injury, and have recovered
viable embryos following storage in liquid nitrogen. In a series of 53
experiments, a total of 3,711 larvae emerged from 17,280 eggs that were cooled in
liquid nitrogen (18.4 +/- 8.8%). Further, using a subset from this population,
approximately 3% of the surviving larvae (24/800) developed into adults. These
adults were fertile and produced an F1 generation.

DOI: 10.1038/345170a0 
PMID: 2110627  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Nature. 1990 May 10;345(6271):161-3.

Vasorelaxant properties of the endothelium-derived relaxing factor more closely
resemble S-nitrosocysteine than nitric oxide.

Myers PR(1), Minor RL Jr, Guerra R Jr, Bates JN, Harrison DG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Iowa, College of Medicine, Iowa
City.

Studies of cultured bovine aortic endothelial cells using quantitative
chemiluminescence techniques have shown that the amount of nitric oxide released 
under basal conditions, or in response to either bradykinin or the calcium
ionophore A23187 is insufficient to account for the vasorelaxant activities of
the endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF) derived from the same source. This
observation contradicts previous suggestions that nitric oxide and EDRF are the
same compound, but may be explained if EDRF is a compound that contains nitric
oxide within its structure but is a much more potent vasodilator than nitric
oxide. Such a molecule could be one of several nitrosothiols which may yield
nitric oxide after a one-electron reduction. The present experiments were carried
out to test the possibility that the biological activities of the
endothelium-derived relaxing factor might more closely resemble those of one of
these compounds, S-nitrosocysteine, than nitric oxide. Nitric oxide release from 
cultured bovine aortic endothelial cells was detected by chemiluminescence and
bioassay experiments compared the vasodilator potencies of nitric oxide,
S-nitrosocysteine, and EDRF. The results suggest that EDRF is much more likely to
be a nitrosylated compound such as a nitrosothiol than authentic nitric oxide.

DOI: 10.1038/345161a0 
PMID: 2110626  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Nature. 1990 May 10;345(6271):132-5.

Inhibition of mutant troponin C activity by an intra-domain disulphide bond.

Grabarek Z(1), Tan RY, Wang J, Tao T, Gergely J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Muscle Research, Boston Biomedical Research Institute,
Massachusetts 02114.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 May 10;345(6271):116-7.

Triggering of contraction in striated muscles involves a conformational
transition in the N-terminal domain of troponin C, the calcium-binding component 
of thin filaments. We have designed a mutant troponin C in which the key
conformational transition and the calcium-regulatory activity are reversibly
blocked by the formation of a disulphide bridge. Our results may be applicable to
other proteins of the same family of calcium-binding proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/345132a0 
PMID: 2110625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Nature. 1990 May 10;345(6271):177-9.

Independent transfer of mitochondrial chromosomes and plasmids during unstable
vegetative fusion in Neurospora.

Collins RA(1), Saville BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

The sporadic distribution of similar introns in organelle, nuclear ribosomal RNA 
and bacteriophage genes suggests that at least some of these introns are mobile
genetic elements. Some plasmids in fungal mitochondria contain intron-like
sequences and, like introns, they have scattered distributions within and among
species. The occurrence and evolutionary importance of such horizontal transfer
of DNA, not only between fungi, but among a wide range of organisms have been
matters of much discussion. Here, we report experimental evidence for transfer of
Neurospora mitochondrial plasmids from one mitochondrial genotype to another at
high frequency during unstable vegetative cell fusion. Exchange of mitochondrial 
and nuclear genomes can also occur. These observations suggest that vegetative
fusion may have a more important role in the mitochondrial genetic structure of
natural populations than is generally thought, and may provide an explanation for
the distribution of certain plasmids and possibly other mobile genetic elements.

DOI: 10.1038/345177a0 
PMID: 1970854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Nature. 1990 May 10;345(6271):172-4.

Invariant chain influences the immunological recognition of MHC class II
molecules.

Peterson M(1), Miller J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics and Cell Biology, University of Chicago,
Illinois 60637.

Recent experiments have implicated intracellular events in the formation of the
MHC class II-peptide complexes recognized by CD4-positive T cells. These data
raise the possibility that the intracellular association of class II with the
non-polymorphic glycoprotein, invariant chain (Ii), may regulate the interaction 
between processed antigen and MHC class II molecules. To address this
possibility, we have generated a series of transfected fibroblast cell lines that
express class II with and without Ii. Although the presence of Ii does not seem
to affect the ability of the cells to process and present intact antigen,
Ii-negative cells express an altered form of class II at the cell surface. This
modified conformation of class II in Ii-negative cells is detectable by an
increase in the ability to present antigenic peptides to T cells and a decrease
in the binding of several class II-specific monoclonal antibodies.

DOI: 10.1038/345172a0 
PMID: 1692393  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Nature. 1990 May 10;345(6271):163-7.

Similarity of the product of the Drosophila neurogenic gene big brain to
transmembrane channel proteins.

Rao Y(1), Jan LY, Jan YN.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of California, San Francisco
94143-0724.

Cells in the neurogenic region of Drosophila embryos are initially bipotential;
they can become either neuroblasts or epidermoblasts. Cell-cell interaction seems
to play an important part in this developmental decision, which involves the
function of a group of genes (the neurogenic genes). Loss-of-function mutations
in any of the neurogenic genes result in nervous system hyperplasia and epidermal
hypoplasia. Of the six known zygotic neurogenic genes, big brain (bib) is unique 
in several aspects. Most notably, all the other known neurogenic genes seem to
fit into a cascade defined by genetic interactions, whereas bib does not show any
detectable interaction with them. To understand how bib functions, we have now
cloned the bib genomic and complementary DNAs. The predicted bib product shows
significant sequence similarity to a family of transmembrane proteins, some of
which form channels permeable to small molecules. Together with genetic studies, 
our results indicate that the bib product may mediate intercellular communication
in a pathway separate from the one involving the products of the other neurogenic
genes.

DOI: 10.1038/345163a0 
PMID: 1692392  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Nature. 1990 May 3;345(6270):86-9.

Ancestral lysozymes reconstructed, neutrality tested, and thermostability linked 
to hydrocarbon packing.

Malcolm BA(1), Wilson KP, Matthews BW, Kirsch JF, Wilson AC.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of California,
Berkeley 94720.

The controversy surrounding the idea that neutral mutations dominate protein
evolution is attributable in part to the inadequacy of the tools available to
evolutionary investigators. With a few exceptions, most investigations into the
force driving protein evolution have relied on indirect criteria for
distinguishing neutral and non-neutral variants. To investigate a particular
pathway of molecular evolution, we have reconstructed by site-directed
mutagenesis likely ancestral variants of the lysozymes of modern game birds
(order Galliformes), tested their activity and thermostability and determined
their three-dimensional structure. We focused on amino acids at three positions
that are occupied in all known game birds either by the triplet Thr 40, Ile 55,
Ser 91, or by the triplet Ser 40, Val 55, Thr 91. We have synthesized proteins
representing intermediates along the possible three-step evolutionary pathways
between these triplets. Although all of these are active and stable, none of
these intermediates is found in known lysozymes. A comparison of the structures
and thermostabilities of the variants reveals a linear correlation between the
side-chain volume of the triplet and the thermostability of the protein. Each
pathway connecting the two extant triplet sequences includes a variant with a
thermostability outside the range of the extant proteins. This observation is
consistent with a non-neutral evolutionary pathway. The existence of variants
that are more stable than the extant proteins suggests that selection for maximum
thermostability may not have been an important factor in the evolution of this
enzyme.

DOI: 10.1038/345086a0 
PMID: 2330057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Nature. 1990 May 3;345(6270):78-80.

A growth-deficiency phenotype in heterozygous mice carrying an insulin-like
growth factor II gene disrupted by targeting.

DeChiara TM(1), Efstratiadis A, Robertson EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Development, Columbia University, New York, New
York 10032.

Growth factors are thought to function as pivotal autocrine-paracrine regulatory 
signals during embryonic development. Insulin-like growth factor II (IGF-II), a
mitogenic polypeptide for a variety of cell lines, could have such a role, as
indicated by the pattern of expression of its gene during rodent development. The
IGF-II gene uses at least three promoters and expresses several transcripts in
many tissues during the embryonic and neonatal periods, whereas expression in
adult animals is confined to the choroid plexus and the leptomeninges. To examine
the developmental role of IGF-II, we have begun to study the consequences of
introducing mutations at the IGF-II gene locus in the mouse germ line. We have
disrupted one of the IGF-II alleles in cultured mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells
by gene targeting and constructed chimaeric animals. Germ-line transmission of
the inactivated IGF-II gene from male chimaeras yielded heterozygous progeny that
were smaller than their ES cell-derived wild-type littermates (about 60% of
normal body weight). These growth-deficient animals were otherwise apparently
normal and fertile. The effect of the mutation was exerted during the embryonic
period. These results provide the first direct evidence for a physiological role 
of IGF-II in embryonic growth.

DOI: 10.1038/345078a0 
PMID: 2330056  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Nature. 1990 May 3;345(6270):60-3.

Genetic diversity in Sargasso Sea bacterioplankton.

Giovannoni SJ(1), Britschgi TB, Moyer CL, Field KG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Oregon State University, Corvallis 97331.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 May 3;345(6270):20.

Bacterioplankton are recognized as important agents of biogeochemical change in
marine ecosystems, yet relatively little is known about the species that make up 
these communities. Uncertainties about the genetic structure and diversity of
natural bacterioplankton populations stem from the traditional difficulties
associated with microbial cultivation techniques. Discrepancies between direct
counts and plate counts are typically several orders of magnitude, raising doubts
as to whether cultivated marine bacteria are actually representative of dominant 
planktonic species. We have phylogenetically analysed clone libraries of
eubacterial 16S ribosomal RNA genes amplified from natural populations of
Sargasso Sea picoplankton by the polymerase chain reaction. The analysis
indicates the presence of a novel microbial group, the SAR11 cluster, which
appears to be a significant component of this oligotrophic bacterioplankton
community. A second cluster of lineages related to the oxygenic
phototrophs--cyanobacteria, prochlorophytes and chloroplasts--was also observed. 
However, none of the genes matched the small subunit rRNA sequences of cultivated
marine cyanobacteria from similar habitats. The diversity of 16S rRNA genes
observed within the clusters suggests that these bacterioplankton may be
consortia of independent lineages sharing surprisingly distant common ancestors.

DOI: 10.1038/345060a0 
PMID: 2330053  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Nature. 1990 May 3;345(6270):36-41.

The three-dimensional structure of the bacterial virus MS2.

Valegård K(1), Liljas L, Fridborg K, Unge T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Uppsala University, Sweden.

The structure of the icosahedral bacteriophage MS2 has been determined to 3.3 A
resolution by X-ray crystallography. The phase determination involved both
molecular replacement at low resolution using a known structure and heavy-atom
substitution. The coat protein has no structural similarity to that of any other 
known RNA virus.

DOI: 10.1038/345036a0 
PMID: 2330049  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Nature. 1990 May 3;345(6270):84-6.

Tat protein of HIV-1 stimulates growth of cells derived from Kaposi's sarcoma
lesions of AIDS patients.

Ensoli B(1), Barillari G, Salahuddin SZ, Gallo RC, Wong-Staal F.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Tumor Cell Biology, National Cancer Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) is frequently associated with human immunodeficiency
virus-1 (HIV-1) infection. Supernatants from HIV-1-infected T cells carrying the 
CD4 antigen promote the growth of cells derived from KS lesions of AIDS patients 
(AIDS-KS cells), and the HIV-1 tat gene, introduced into the germ line of mice,
induces skin lesions closely resembling KS. Here we report that the tat gene
product (Tat) is released from both HIV-1-acutely infected H9 cells and
tat-transfected COS-1 cells. These Tat-containing supernatants specifically
promote growth of AIDS-KS cells which are inhibited by anti-Tat antibodies;
recombinant Tat has the same growth-promoting properties. Therefore a viral
regulatory gene product can be released as a biologically active protein and
directly act as a growth stimulator. These and previous data indicate that
extracellular Tat could be involved in the development or progression, or both,
of KS in HIV-1-infected individuals.

DOI: 10.1038/345084a0 
PMID: 2184372  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Nature. 1990 May 3;345(6270):89-92.

Resemblance of actin-binding protein/actin gels to covalently crosslinked
networks.

Janmey PA(1), Hvidt S, Lamb J, Stossel TP.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical
School, Boston 02114.

The maintainance of the shape of cells is often due to their surface elasticity, 
which arises mainly from an actin-rich cytoplasmic cortex. On locomotion,
phagocytosis or fission, however, these cells become partially fluid-like. The
finding of proteins that can bind to actin and control the assembly of, or
crosslink, actin filaments, and of intracellular messages that regulate the
activities of some of these actin-binding proteins, indicates that such 'gel-sol'
transformations result from the rearrangement of cortical actin-rich networks.
Alternatively, on the basis of a study of the mechanical properties of mixtures
of actin filaments and an Acanthamoeba actin-binding protein, alpha-actinin, it
has been proposed that these transformations can be accounted for by rapid
exchange of crosslinks between actin filaments: the cortical network would be
solid when the deformation rate is greater than the rate of crosslink exchange,
but would deform or 'creep' when deformation is slow enough to permit crosslinker
molecules to rearrange. Here we report, however, that mixtures of actin filaments
and actin-binding protein (ABP), an actin crosslinking protein of many higher
eukaryotes, form gels rheologically equivalent to covalently crosslinked
networks. These gels do not creep in response to applied stress on a time scale
compatible with most cell-surface movements. These findings support a more
complex and controlled mechanism underlying the dynamic mechanical properties of 
cortical cytoplasm, and can explain why cells do not collapse under the constant 
shear forces that often exist in tissues.

DOI: 10.1038/345089a0 
PMID: 2158633  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Nature. 1990 May 3;345(6270):68-71.

Virus-induced autoantibody response to a transgenic viral antigen.

Zinkernagel RM(1), Cooper S, Chambers J, Lazzarini RA, Hengartner H, Arnheiter H.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pathology, University of Zurich, Switzerland.

The induction of autoantibodies and their possible role in the pathogenesis of
autoimmune disease are poorly understood. Involvement of infectious agents has
been suspected, but direct evidence is sparse. Whether immunological
unresponsiveness to self by antibody-forming B cells is maintained by clonal
abortion, clonal anergy or suppression, or how the scenario of interactions
between helper T cells, B cells and antigen-presenting cells is distorted in
autoantibody responses, is being analysed and widely debated. To evaluate
tolerance of neutralizing B-cell responses we used transgenic mice expressing the
cell membrane associated glycoprotein (G) of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) as 
self-antigen. We show that autoantibodies to VSV-G cannot be induced by VSV-G in 
adjuvant or by recombinant vaccinia virus expressing VSV-G, but are triggered by 
infection with wild-type VSV. The data show that helper T-cell tolerance is
crucial in maintenance of B-cell non-reactivity and that cognate T-B recognition 
is necessary to break tolerance of self-reactive B cells. These results may help 
to understand mechanisms of virus-induced autoimmunity.

DOI: 10.1038/345068a0 
PMID: 2158632  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Nature. 1990 May 3;345(6270):65-8.

Rapid kinetics of second messenger formation in olfactory transduction.

Breer H(1), Boekhoff I, Tareilus E.

Author information: 
(1)University Stuttgart-Hohenheim, Institute of Zoophysiology, FRG.

Olfactory transduction is thought to be mediated by a membrane-bound receptor
protein initiating a multistep reaction cascade which ultimately leads to a
depolarizing generator current. There is considerable evidence for the
involvement of adenylate cyclase in vertebrate olfactory transduction, and some
data indicate that phospholipase C may have a central role in insect olfaction.
However, one must show that odorants not only stimulate enzyme activity but also 
induce changes in concentrations of relevant second messengers. One important
criterion for a candidate second messenger of chemo-electrical transduction is
that its formation must precede the onset of the odorant-induced membrane
permeability changes which proceed on a subsecond time-scale. Here we report an
odorant-induced, transient accumulation of cyclic AMP in isolated olfactory cilia
from rats, and the generation of inositol trisphosphate in antennal preparations 
from insects, both of which show subsecond time courses that are sufficiently
rapid to mediate the odorant-regulated permeability of olfactory receptor cells.

DOI: 10.1038/345065a0 
PMID: 2158631  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Nature. 1990 May 3;345(6270):41-6.

A binding site for the T-cell co-receptor CD8 on the alpha 3 domain of HLA-A2.

Salter RD(1), Benjamin RJ, Wesley PK, Buxton SE, Garrett TP, Clayberger C,
Krensky AM, Norment AM, Littman DR, Parham P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Stanford University, California 94305.

Adhesion measurements between CD8 and 48 point mutants of HLA-A2.1 show that the 
CD8 alpha-chain binds to the alpha 3 domain of HLA-A2.1. Three clusters of alpha 
3 residues contribute to the binding, with an exposed, negatively charged loop
(residues 223-229) playing a dominant role. CD8 binding correlates with cytotoxic
T-cell recognition and sensitivity to inhibition by anti-CD8 antibodies. Impaired
alloreactive T-cell recognition of an HLA-A2.1 mutant with reduced affinity for
CD8 is not restored by functional CD8 binding sites on an antigenically
irrelevant class I molecule. Therefore, complexes of CD8 and the T-cell receptor 
bound to the same class I major histocompatibility complex molecule seem to be
necessary for T-cell activation.

DOI: 10.1038/345041a0 
PMID: 2109837  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Nature. 1990 May 3;345(6270):71-4.

Association of CD2 and CD45 on human T lymphocytes.

Schraven B(1), Samstag Y, Altevogt P, Meuer SC.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Angewandte Immunologie, Deutsches Krebsforschungszentrum,
Heidelberg, FRG.

At least two membrane receptors have been defined through which human T
lymphocytes can be induced to proliferate and differentiate, namely the CD3-Ti
antigen receptor complex and the CD2 molecule. Monoclonal antibodies directed at 
either CD2 or CD3 induce intracellular second messenger production and subsequent
protein phosphorylation. On most human non-B lymphocytes, CD3-Ti and CD2 are
coexpressed and seem to be functionally interrelated. But there are minor
subpopulations in which these receptor systems can transduce signals despite a
mutually exclusive expression, indicating that CD3-Ti and CD2 can act
independently of each other. This view is supported by the finding that most
monoclonal antibodies directed at the CD45 molecules are strongly co-mitogenic
with CD2 but not CD3 monoclonal antibodies. As the intracytoplasmic domains of
CD45 have tyrosine phosphatase activity these functional effects could be
explained by a physical association between CD2 and CD45. Using chemical
crosslinking techniques, we now show that CD45 is linked to CD2 on the surface of
human T lymphocytes.

DOI: 10.1038/345071a0 
PMID: 1970422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Nature. 1990 May 3;345(6270):81-3.

Mediation of meiotic and early mitotic chromosome segregation in Drosophila by a 
protein related to kinesin.

Endow SA(1), Henikoff S, Soler-Niedziela L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Duke University Medical Center,
Durham, North Carolina 27710.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 May 3;345(6270):22-3.

Contrary to the traditional view that microtubules pull chromosomes polewards
during the anaphase stage of meiotic and mitotic cell divisions, new evidence
suggests that the chromosome movements are driven by a motor located at the
kinetochore. The process of chromosome segregation involves proper arrangement of
kinetochores for spindle attachment, followed by spindle attachment and
chromosome movement. Mechanisms in Drosophila for chromosome segregation in
meiosis differ in males and females, implying the action of different gene
products in the two sexes. A product encoded at the claret locus in Drosophila is
required for normal chromosome segregation in meiosis in females and in early
mitotic divisions of the embryo. Here we show that the predicted amino-acid
sequence of this product is related to the heavy chain of kinesin. The conserved 
region corresponds to the kinesin motor domain and includes the ATP-binding site 
and a region that can bind microtubules. A second region contains a leucine
repeat motif which may mediate protein-subunit interactions necessary for
attachment of chromosomes to the spindle. The mutant phenotype of chromosome
nondisjunction and loss, and its similarity to the kinesin ATP-binding domain,
suggest that the product encoded at claret not only stabilizes chromosome
attachments to the spindle, but may also be a motor that drives chromosome
segregation in female meiosis.

DOI: 10.1038/345081a0 
PMID: 1691829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Nature. 1990 May 3;345(6270):74-7.

The B-cell antigen CD22 mediates monocyte and erythrocyte adhesion.

Stamenkovic I(1), Seed B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

Interaction with antigen-presenting accessory cells is thought to be an important
step in B-cell activation, and the B-cell receptor CD22, which is coordinately
expressed with surface immunoglobulin, has been proposed to participate in the
antigen response. Here we show that CD22 has a structure closely related to
myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG, a neuronal adhesion protein), and mediates
monocyte and erythrocyte adhesion. Like CD2, the T-cell erythrocyte receptor,
CD22 may facilitate antigen recognition by promoting antigen-nonspecific contacts
with accessory cells.

DOI: 10.1038/345074a0 
PMID: 1691828  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Nature. 1990 May 3;345(6270):63-5.

16S rRNA sequences reveal numerous uncultured microorganisms in a natural
community.

Ward DM(1), Weller R, Bateson MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Montana State University, Bozeman 59717.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 May 3;345(6270):20.

Microbiologists have been constrained in their efforts to describe the
compositions of natural microbial communities using traditional methods. Few
microorganisms have sufficiently distinctive morphology to be recognized by
microscopy. Culture-dependent methods are biased, as a microorganism can be
cultivated only after its physiological niche is perceived and duplicated
experimentally. It is therefore widely believed that fewer than 20% of the extant
microorganisms have been discovered, and that culture methods are inadequate for 
studying microbial community composition. In view of the physiological and
phylogenetic diversity among microorganisms, speculation that 80% or more of
microbes remain undiscovered raises the question of how well we know the Earth's 
biota and its biochemical potential. We have performed a culture-independent
analysis of the composition of a well-studied hot spring microbial community,
using a common but distinctive cellular component, 16S ribosomal RNA. Our results
confirm speculations about the diversity of uncultured microorganisms it
contains.

DOI: 10.1038/345063a0 
PMID: 1691827  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Nature. 1990 Apr 26;344(6269):868-70.

Activin is a nerve cell survival molecule.

Schubert D(1), Kimura H, LaCorbiere M, Vaughan J, Karr D, Fischer WH.

Author information: 
(1)Salk Institute, La Jolla, California 92037.

The structures of five neurotrophic molecules have so far been published. Nerve
growth factor, fibroblast growth factor and purpurin, have been identified as
nerve-cell survival molecules. More recently, brain-derived neurotrophic factor
(BDNF) and ciliary neurotrophic factor have been cloned and sequenced. As all
these proteins stimulate the survival of ciliary or sensory neurons, a new cell
survival assay is required if novel neurotrophic molecules are to be discovered. 
P19 teratoma cells differentiate to nerve-like cells in the presence of 5 x
10(-7) M retinoic acid (RA). But when P19 cells are plated in N2 synthetic medium
without being exposed to RA, they die within 48 h. In an attempt to identify a
molecule(s) that can substitute for RA in promoting P19 survival, we assayed
serum-free growth-conditioned media for their ability to promote P19 survival.
One cell line from the rat eye secreted a molecule that promoted the survival of 
P19 cells and some types of nerve cell. We identified this molecule as activin,
better known for its role in hormone secretion.

DOI: 10.1038/344868a0 
PMID: 2330043  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Nature. 1990 Apr 26;344(6269):866-8.

A cholecystokinin-like hormone activates a feeding-related neural circuit in
lobster.

Turrigiano GG(1), Selverston AI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla 92093.

The peptide hormone cholecystokinin (CCK) contributes to the production of
feeding-related behaviour in mammals, but the mechanism by which it exerts its
effects remains unclear. The gastric mill neural circuit of lobster is an
experimentally accessible model system for studying the hormonal control of
feeding-related behaviour. Composed of 11 identified neurons, this circuit
produces rhythmic movement of teeth within the stomach. We have previously shown 
that the gastric mill motor pattern can be modulated by a cholecystokinin-like
peptide in vitro. We report here that (1) after feeding, levels of CCK-like
peptide in haemolymph increase with the activation of the gastric mill, (2)
injections of CCK activate the gastric mill, and (3) a specific CCK antagonist
inhibits feeding-induced gastric mill activity. This neatly demonstrates a casual
link between in vivo release of a peptide hormone and activation of a neural
circuit.

DOI: 10.1038/344866a0 
PMID: 2330042  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Nature. 1990 Apr 26;344(6269):830-6.

Nucleolar transcription factor hUBF contains a DNA-binding motif with homology to
HMG proteins.

Jantzen HM(1), Admon A, Bell SP, Tjian R.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Molecular and Cell Biology,
University of California, Berkeley 94720.

The eukaryotic upstream binding factor (UBF), recognizes the ribosomal RNA gene
promoter and activates transcription mediated by RNA polymerase I through
cooperative interactions with the species-specific factor, SL1. Isolation of
complementary DNA clones and sequence analysis reveals similarities between DNA
binding domains of human UBF (hUBF) and high mobility group (HMG) protein 1.
Expression, cellular localization and in vitro transcription studies establish
that cloned hUBF encodes a nucleolar factor that binds specifically to the
upstream control element and core of the rRNA gene promoter to activate
transcription in a binding site-dependent manner.

DOI: 10.1038/344830a0 
PMID: 2330041  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Nature. 1990 Apr 26;344(6269):873-5.

Induction of CD8+ cytotoxic T cells by immunization with purified HIV-1 envelope 
protein in ISCOMs.

Takahashi H(1), Takeshita T, Morein B, Putney S, Germain RN, Berzofsky JA.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Immunogenetics and Vaccine Research Section, National Cancer
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Apr 26;344(6269):818-9.

To reduce the risks of immunization with killed or live attenuated virus
vaccines, it may be advantageous to use a pure, defined antigen that contains
determinants for both humoral and cellular immunity. However, although most
non-living intact protein preparations induce antibodies and CD4+ major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II-restricted helper and/or cytotoxic T
lymphocytes (CTL), they do not elicit CD8+ MHC class I restricted CTL. Indeed,
with a few exceptions, it has not so far been possible to induce CD8+ CTL by
immunizing with intact soluble proteins. We show here that a single subcutaneous 
immunization in mice with immunostimulating complexes containing either purified 
intact gp160 envelope glycoprotein of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 or
influenza haemagglutinin results in reproducible and long-lasting priming of HIV 
specific or influenza-specific CD8+, MHC class I restricted CTL.

DOI: 10.1038/344873a0 
PMID: 2184369  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Nature. 1990 Apr 26;344(6269):836-41.

G0 is a major growth cone protein subject to regulation by GAP-43.

Strittmatter SM(1), Valenzuela D, Kennedy TE, Neer EJ, Fishman MC.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Biology Laboratory, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston.

G0, a GTP-binding protein that transduces information from transmembrane
receptors, has been found to be a major component of the neuronal growth cone
membrane. GAP-43, an intracellular growth cone protein closely associated with
neuronal growth, stimulates GTP-gamma-S binding to G0. It does so through an
amino-terminal domain homologous to G-linked transmembrane receptors. Thus, G0 in
the growth cone may be regulated by intracellular as well as extracellular
signals.

DOI: 10.1038/344836a0 
PMID: 2158629  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Nature. 1990 Apr 26;344(6269):882-4.

Heat-shock proteins DnaK and GroEL facilitate export of LacZ hybrid proteins in
E. coli.

Phillips GJ(1), Silhavy TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Princeton University, New Jersey 08544.

The use of lacZ gene fusions, producing a hybrid protein containing an amino
terminus specified by a target gene fused to the functional carboxy terminus of
beta-galactosidase, has facilitated the study of protein targeting in various
organisms. One of the best characterized fusions in Escherichia coli is
phi(lamB-lacZ)42-1(Hyb), which produces a hybrid protein with the signal sequence
and 181 N-terminal amino acids of the exported protein LamB, attached to LacZ. In
common with other LacZ hybrids, the LamB-LacZ(42-1) protein is poorly exported
from E. coli, conferring a Lac+ phenotype. beta-Galactosidase activity decreases 
markedly when cells producing the LamB-LacZ protein are grown at 42 degrees C or 
when a heat-shock response is induced at lower temperatures by overproducing
heat-shock factor RpoH3, indicating the LacZ hybrids are being efficiently
targeted to the cell envelope. We now report that the heat-shock proteins DnaK
and GroEL can, in sufficient amounts, decrease beta-galactosidase activity and
facilitate the export of lacZ-hybrid proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/344882a0 
PMID: 2109835  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Nature. 1990 Apr 26;344(6269):876-9.

Novel cysteine-rich motif and homeodomain in the product of the Caenorhabditis
elegans cell lineage gene lin-11.

Freyd G(1), Kim SK, Horvitz HR.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Biology, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge 02139.

The gene lin-11 is required for the asymmetric division of a vulval precursor
cell type in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Putative lin-11 complementary
DNAs were sequenced and found to encode a protein that contains both a
homeodomain and two tandem copies of a novel cysteine-rich motif:
C-X2-C-X17-19-H-X2-C-X2-C-X2-C-X7-11-(C)-X8-C. Two tandem copies of this motif
are also present amino-terminal to the homeodomains in the proteins encoded by
the genes mec-3, which is required for C. elegans touch neuron differentiation,
and isl-1, which encodes a rat insulin I gene enhancer-binding protein. The
arrangement of cysteine residues in this motif, referred to as LIM (for lin-11
isl-1 mec-3), suggests that this region is a metal-binding domain. The presence
in these three proteins of both a potential metal-binding domain and a
homeodomain distinguishes them from previously characterized proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/344876a0 
PMID: 1970421  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Nature. 1990 Apr 26;344(6269):879-82.

Insulin gene enhancer binding protein Isl-1 is a member of a novel class of
proteins containing both a homeo- and a Cys-His domain.

Karlsson O(1), Thor S, Norberg T, Ohlsson H, Edlund T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Umeå, Sweden.

The activity of the rat insulin I gene enhancer is mainly dependent on two
cis-acting protein-binding domains. Here we report the isolation of a
complementary DNA encoding a protein, Isl-1, that binds to one of these domains. 
Isl-1 contains a homeodomain with greatest similarity to those of the
Caenorhabditis elegans proteins encoded by mec-3 and lin-11. In addition, Isl-1, 
like the lin-11 and mec-3 gene products, contains a novel Cys-His domain which is
reminiscent of known metal-binding regions. Together these proteins define a
novel class of proteins containing both a homeo- and a Cys His-domain. Isl-1 is
preferentially expressed in cells of pancreatic endocrine origin. If the
structural homologies between Isl-1 and the C. elegans gene products reflect
functional similarities, a role for Isl-1 in the development of pancreatic
endocrine cells could be envisaged.

DOI: 10.1038/344879a0 
PMID: 1691825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Nature. 1990 Apr 26;344(6269):871-2.

Role of myelin P0 protein as a homophilic adhesion molecule.

Filbin MT(1), Walsh FS, Trapp BD, Pizzey JA, Tennekoon GI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21205.

Peripheral nervous system myelin is an extension of the Schwann cell's plasma
membrane that tightly enwraps axons in many layers and permits nerve impulses to 
be rapidly conducted. It is not known how these multiple membrane layers are held
together in this compact form. Here we present evidence supporting the hypothesis
that the extracellular leaflets of myelin are held together by the most abundant 
protein of myelin of the peripheral nervous system, P0, by homophilic interaction
of its extracellular domains. Transfected Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing 
P0 protein adhere to each other in suspension, to form large aggregates, whereas 
cells that are identical but which do not express P0 do not. We also show that
this aggregation is mediated by homophilic binding between P0-expressing cells
and that the apposing plasma membranes of these cells specifically form
desmosomes, whereas control transfected cells do not. As the only difference
between the two cell populations is the expression of P0, this protein is
apparently responsible for the changes in morphology and adhesion in the cells
that express it. The idea that P0 is a homophilic adhesion molecule is supported 
by its inclusion in the immunoglobulin supergene family, all members of which are
involved in recognition and/or adhesion.

DOI: 10.1038/344871a0 
PMID: 1691824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Nature. 1990 Apr 19;344(6268):787-9.

Relaxation of a transfer RNA specificity by removal of modified nucleotides.

Perret V(1), Garcia A, Grosjean H, Ebel JP, Florentz C, Giegé R.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire, Centre National de la
Recherche Scientifique, Strasbourg, France.

The molecular recognition of specific transfer RNAs by the appropriate
aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase is an important step in determining the accuracy of
translation of the genetic message from nucleic acids into proteins. Recent
studies using variant tRNAs with specific sequence modifications have indicated
particular regions that determine their identity. Here we consider whether the
base modifications commonly found in tRNAs contribute to their identity. Although
unmodified tRNA(Asp) is charged with aspartate as efficiently as the modified
native tRNA, it is mischarged with arginine with considerably increased
efficiency. Our results indicate that post-transcriptional modification of tRNAs 
introduces structural 'anti-determinants', restricting the efficiency with which 
the tRNAs are charged with inappropriate amino acids.

DOI: 10.1038/344787a0 
PMID: 2330033  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Nature. 1990 Apr 19;344(6268):784-7.

Apolactoferrin structure demonstrates ligand-induced conformational change in
transferrins.

Anderson BF(1), Baker HM, Norris GE, Rumball SV, Baker EN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Massey University, Palmerston North,
New Zealand.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Apr 19;344(6268):710.

Proteins of the transferrin family, which contains serum transferrin and
lactoferrin, control iron levels in higher animals through their very tight (Kapp
approximately 10(20)) but reversible binding of iron. These bilobate molecules
have two binding sites, one per lobe, each housing one Fe3+ and the synergistic
CO3(2-) ion. Crystallographic studies of human lactoferrin and rabbit serum
transferrin in their iron-bound forms have characterized their binding sites and 
protein structure. Physical studies show that a substantial conformational change
accompanies iron binding and release. We have addressed this phenomenon through
crystal structure analysis of human apolactoferrin at 2.8 A resolution. In this
structure the N-lobe binding cleft is wide open, following a domain rotation of
53 degrees, mediated by the pivoting of two helices and flexing of two
interdomain polypeptide strands. Remarkably, the C-lobe cleft is closed, but
unliganded. These observations have implications for transferrin function and for
binding proteins in general.

DOI: 10.1038/344784a0 
PMID: 2330032  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Nature. 1990 Apr 19;344(6268):781-4.

Symbiotic host-specificity of Rhizobium meliloti is determined by a sulphated and
acylated glucosamine oligosaccharide signal.

Lerouge P(1), Roche P, Faucher C, Maillet F, Truchet G, Promé JC, Dénarié J.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherches de Biochimie et de Génétique Cellulaire, CNRS LP8201,
Toulouse, France.

Rhizobia are symbiotic bacteria that elicit the formation on leguminous plants of
specialized organs, root nodules, in which they fix nitrogen. In various
Rhizobium species, such as R. leguminosarum and R. meliloti, common and
host-specific nodulation (nod) genes have been identified which determine
infection and nodulation of specific hosts. Common nodABC genes as well as
host-specific nodH and nodQ genes were shown recently, using bioassays, to be
involved in the production of extracellular Nod signals. Using R. meliloti
strains overproducing symbiotic Nod factors, we have purified the major
alfalfa-specific signal, NodRm-1, by gel permeation, ion exchange and C18
reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography. From mass spectrometry,
nuclear magnetic resonance, (35)S-labelling and chemical modification studies,
NodRm-1 was shown to be a sulphated beta-1,4-tetrasaccharide of D-glucosamine (Mr
1,102) in which three amino groups were acetylated and one was acylated with a
C16 bis-unsaturated fatty acid. This purified Nod signal specifically elicited
root hair deformation on the homologous host when added in nanomolar
concentration.

DOI: 10.1038/344781a0 
PMID: 2330031  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Nature. 1990 Apr 19;344(6268):768-70.

Pregnancies from biopsied human preimplantation embryos sexed by Y-specific DNA
amplification.

Handyside AH(1), Kontogianni EH, Hardy K, Winston RM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Royal Postgraduate Medical School,
Hammersmith Hospital, London, UK.

Over 200 recessive X chromosome-linked diseases, typically affecting only
hemizygous males, have been identified. In many of these, prenatal diagnosis is
possible by chorion villus sampling (CVS) or amniocentesis, followed by
cytogenetic, biochemical or molecular analysis of the cells recovered from the
conceptus. In others, the only alternative is to determine the sex of the fetus. 
If the fetus is affected by the defect or is male, abortion can be offered.
Diagnosis of genetic defects in preimplantation embryos would allow those
unaffected to be identified and transferred to the uterus. Here we report the
first established pregnancies using this procedure, in two couples known to be at
risk of transmitting adrenoleukodystrophy and X-linked mental retardation. Two
female embryos were transferred after in vitro fertilization (IVF), biopsy of a
single cell at the six- to eight-cell stage, and sexing by DNA amplification of a
Y chromosome-specific repeat sequence. Both women are confirmed as carrying
normal female twins.

KIE: British researchers report on the first established pregnancies after
preimplantation embryos were sexed after in vitro fertilization and those
identified as female were placed in the uterus. The procedure involved the
embryos of five couples at risk for transmitting recessive x-linked diseases to
male offspring. Handyside, et al. describe the method by which the embryos were
sexed using DNA amplification. They report one unconfirmed clinical pregnancy and
two confirmed pregnancies with normal female twins.
DOI: 10.1038/344768a0 
PMID: 2330030  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Nature. 1990 Apr 19;344(6268):734-41.

Nonlinear forecasting as a way of distinguishing chaos from measurement error in 
time series.

Sugihara G(1), May RM.

Author information: 
(1)Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California, San Diego,
92093.

An approach is presented for making short-term predictions about the trajectories
of chaotic dynamical systems. The method is applied to data on measles,
chickenpox, and marine phytoplankton populations, to show how apparent noise
associated with deterministic chaos can be distinguished from sampling error and 
other sources of externally induced environmental noise.

DOI: 10.1038/344734a0 
PMID: 2330029  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Nature. 1990 Apr 19;344(6268):793-4.

DNA mutagenesis and recombination.

Jones DH, Sakamoto K, Vorce RL, Howard BH.

The polymerase chain reaction is used for site-specific mutagenesis and for DNA
recombination without any enzymatic reaction in vitro, apart from DNA
amplification.

DOI: 10.1038/344793a0 
PMID: 2184367  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Nature. 1990 Apr 19;344(6268):789-92.

DNA supercoiling and environmental regulation of virulence gene expression in
Shigella flexneri.

Dorman CJ(1), Ni Bhriain N, Higgins CF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Dundee, UK.

Bacterial pathogens undergo profound physiological changes when they infect their
hosts, requiring coordinated regulation of gene expression in response to the
stresses encountered during infection. A number of environmental stresses (such
as osmotic shock and anaerobiosis) have been shown to induce changes in DNA
supercoiling that can directly affect the transcription of a specific subset of
bacterial genes, at least some of which (the outer-membrane porins and type 1
fimbriae) play a part in bacterial virulence. Here, we demonstrate that the virR 
gene of S. flexneri, implicated in the temperature regulation of plasmid-encoded 
virulence genes, is equivalent to the osmZ gene of Escherichia coli, which has
previously been shown to mediate its regulatory effects through changes in DNA
supercoiling. Our results imply that environmentally induced changes in DNA
supercoiling are important in the coordinated control of virulence gene
expression in S. flexneri and have general implications for the control of
bacterial virulence.

DOI: 10.1038/344789a0 
PMID: 2184366  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Nature. 1990 Apr 19;344(6268):777-80.

Epstein-Barr virus latent membrane protein inhibits human epithelial cell
differentiation.

Dawson CW(1), Rickinson AB, Young LS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Studies, University of Birmingham Medical School, UK.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), a human herpesvirus, is strongly linked with two
relatively rare forms of B-cell lymphoma and with a much more prevalent
epithelial malignancy, undifferentiated nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). The
availability of suitable culture systems has allowed detailed analysis of
EBV-induced growth transformation in B lymphocytes, but little is known about the
virus--epithelial cell interaction or about the possible effector role of viral
proteins in the pathogenesis of NPC. Here we describe an experimental system to
monitor the effects of introduced viral or cellular genes upon human epithelial
cell growth and differentiation. We transfected a human epithelial cell line,
which retains several features of normal keratinocyte behaviour in vitro, with
the EBV gene encoding latent membrane protein (LMP), one of only two viral
proteins known to be expressed in NPC cells in vivo. LMP expression was
accompanied by changes in the epithelial cell surface phenotype, mimicking
surface changes observed in NPC cells, and by severe impairment of the cellular
response to differentiation signals. The ability of LMP to inhibit terminal
differentiation indicates a mechanism whereby EBV infection of squamous
epithelium could contribute to the multi-step pathogenesis of NPC.

DOI: 10.1038/344777a0 
PMID: 2158628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Nature. 1990 Apr 19;344(6268):774-7.

Human cytomegalovirus encodes three G protein-coupled receptor homologues.

Chee MS(1), Satchwell SC, Preddie E, Weston KM, Barrell BG.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Apr 19;344(6268):707-8.

Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a herpesvirus with a genome of 230 kilobases (Kb)
encoding about 200 genes. Although infection is generally innocuous, HCMV causes 
serious congenital and neonatal disease, and is a dangerous opportunistic
pathogen in immune-deficient individuals. We have identified a family of three
HCMV genes which encode polypeptides containing seven putative membrane-spanning 
domains, and a series of well-defined motifs characteristic of the rhodopsin-like
G protein-coupled receptors (GCRs). By these criteria all three of the HCMV
sequences are homologous to cellular GCRs. Members of this receptor family
function in visual signal transduction, regulation of homeostasis, and
development, and include known and potential oncogenes. These receptors are
activated by photons or small molecules such as neurotransmitters, and
glycoprotein hormones. The finding of viral-encoded GCR homologues implies a
further level of complexity in the interactions between HCMV and its host, and
may provide a potential pathway for virally transformed cell proliferation. Their
identification could permit the development of a novel class of antiviral drugs
analogous to beta-adrenergic receptor antagonists.

DOI: 10.1038/344774a0 
PMID: 2158627  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


421. Nature. 1990 Apr 19;344(6268):742-6.

Beta 2-microglobulin deficient mice lack CD4-8+ cytolytic T cells.

Zijlstra M(1), Bix M, Simister NE, Loring JM, Raulet DH, Jaenisch R.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Apr 19;344(6268):709-11.

Mice homozygous for a beta 2-microglobulin gene disruption do not express any
detectable beta 2-m protein. They express little if any functional major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I antigen on the cell surface yet are
fertile and apparently healthy. They show a normal distribution of gamma delta,
CD4+8+ and CD4+8- T cells, but have no mature CD4-8+ T cells and are defective in
CD4-8+ T cell-mediated cytotoxicity. Our results strongly support earlier
evidence that MHC class I molecules are crucial for positive selection of T cell 
antigen receptor alpha beta+ CD4-8+ T cells in the thymus and call into question 
the non-immune functions that have been ascribed to MHC class I molecules.

DOI: 10.1038/344742a0 
PMID: 2139497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Nature. 1990 Apr 19;344(6268):770-3.

Arterial dilations in response to calcitonin gene-related peptide involve
activation of K+ channels.

Nelson MT(1), Huang Y, Brayden JE, Hescheler J, Standen NB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Vermont, Burlington 05405.

Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is a 37-amino-acid peptide produced by
alternative processing of messenger RNA from the calcitonin gene. CGRP is one of 
the most potent vasodilators known. It occurs in and is released from
perivascular nerves and has been detected in the blood stream, suggesting that it
is important in the control of blood flow. The mechanism by which it dilates
arteries is not known. Here, we report that arterial dilations in response to
CGRP are partially reversed by blockers of the ATP-sensitive potassium channel
(K(ATP)), glibenclamide and barium. We also show that CGRP hyperpolarizes
arterial smooth muscle and that blockers of K(ATP) channels reverse this
hyperpolarization. Finally, we show that CGRP opens single K+ channels in patches
on single smooth muscle cells from the same arteries. We propose that activation 
of K(ATP) channels underlies a substantial part of the relaxation produced by
CGRP.

DOI: 10.1038/344770a0 
PMID: 2109832  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Nature. 1990 Apr 19;344(6268):721-8.

Sex determination compared in Drosophila and Caenorhabditis.

Hodgkin J(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, UK.

Fruitflies and nematodes show many similarities in the general organization of
the gene networks that control sexual dimorphism and dosage compensation. In
contrast, the underlying molecular mechanisms appear to be very different in
these two species. Developmental processes such as sex determination need not be 
strongly conserved in evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/344721a0 
PMID: 2109831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Nature. 1990 Apr 19;344(6268):767-8.

Gene for chronic proximal spinal muscular atrophies maps to chromosome 5q.

Melki J(1), Abdelhak S, Sheth P, Bachelot MF, Burlet P, Marcadet A, Aicardi J,
Barois A, Carriere JP, Fardeau M, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Unité de Recherches sur les Handicaps Génétiques de l'Enfant, INSERM U-12,
Hôpital des Enfants Malades, Paris, France.

Proximal spinal muscular atrophies represent the second most common fatal,
autosomal recessive disorder after cystic fibrosis. The childhood form is
classically subdivided into three groups: acute Werdnig-Hoffmann (type I),
intermediate Werdnig-Hoffmann disease (type II) and Kugelberg-Welander disease
(type III). These different clinical forms have previously been attributed to
either genetic heterogeneity or variable expression of different mutations at the
same locus. Research has been hindered because the underlying biochemical defect 
is unknown, and there are insufficient large pedigrees with the most common and
severe form (type I) available for study. Therefore, we have undertaken a genetic
linkage analysis of the chronic forms of the disease (types II and III) as an
initial step towards the ultimate goal of characterizing the gene(s) responsible 
for all three types. We report here the assignment of the locus for the chronic
forms to the long arm of chromosome 5 (5q12-q14), with the anonymous DNA marker
D5S39, in 24 multiplex families of distinct ethnic origin. Furthermore, no
evidence for genetic heterogeneity was found for types II and III in our study,
suggesting that these two forms are allelic disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/344767a0 
PMID: 1970420  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Nature. 1990 Apr 19;344(6268):764-7.

Genetic fingerprinting reflects population differentiation in the California
Channel Island fox.

Gilbert DA(1), Lehman N, O'Brien SJ, Wayne RK.

Author information: 
(1)Biological Carcinogenesis and Development Program, Program Resources
Incorporated, NCI-FCRF, Maryland 21701.

Restriction fragment profiles generated by hybridization of hypervariable
minisatellite DNA probes have been used for paternity analysis but not for
comparisons at the level of populations, because the profiles are thought to
evolve too rapidly to be informative over large time intervals. But in small
isolated populations, the fixation of restriction-fragment polymorphisms can
outpace the generation of fragment-length variability through recombination. Here
we report on an analysis of DNA fingerprints of the California Channel Island fox
(Urocyon littoralis). These foxes comprise an island dwarf species found only on 
six of the Channel Islands off the coast of southern California. Variability of
restriction-fragment profiles within fox populations, as indicated by the average
percentage difference (APD), varied widely among the islands, from 0.0% (no
variation) to 25.3%. The APDs between populations were considerably greater
(43.8% to 84.4%). In addition, foxes on each island can be distinguished by the
presence of diagnostic restriction fragments. Maximum parsimony and phenetic
trees relating foxes from different islands are consistent with the
archaeozoological and geological record. Therefore, in small populations of
genetically isolated mammals, differences among hypervariable
restriction-fragment profiles can be used to estimate relative genetic
variability and to reconstruct the evolutionary relationships of natural
populations.

DOI: 10.1038/344764a0 
PMID: 1970419  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Nature. 1990 Apr 12;344(6267):670-3.

Calcium entry through stretch-inactivated ion channels in mdx myotubes.

Franco A Jr(1), Lansman JB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, University of California, San 
Francisco 94143-0450.

Recent advances in understanding the molecular basis of human X-linked muscular
dystrophies have come from the identification of dystrophin, a cytoskeletal
protein associated with the surface membrane. Although there is little or
virtually no dystrophin in affected individuals, it is not known how this causes 
muscle degeneration. One possibility is that the membrane of dystrophic muscle is
weakened and becomes leaky to Ca2+. In muscle from mdx mice, an animal model of
the human disease, intracellular Ca2+ is elevated and associated with a high rate
of protein degradation. The possibility that a lack of dystrophin alters the
resting permeability of skeletal muscle to Ca2+ prompted us to compare
Ca2(+)-permeable ionic channels in muscle cells from normal and mdx mice. We now 
show that recordings of single-channel activity from mdx myotubes are dominated
by the presence of Ca2(+)-permeable mechano-transducing ion channels. Like
similar channels in normal skeletal muscle, they are rarely open at rest, but
open when the membrane is stretched by applying suction to the electrode. Other
channels in mdx myotubes, however, are often open for extended periods of time at
rest and close when suction is applied to the electrode. The results show a novel
type of mechano-transducing ion channel in mdx myotubes that could provide a
pathway for Ca2+ to leak into the cell.

DOI: 10.1038/344670a0 
PMID: 1691450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Nature. 1990 Apr 12;344(6267):673-5.

Compartmentalization of cold-stable and acetylated microtubules in the
subsynaptic domain of chick skeletal muscle fibre.

Jasmin BJ(1), Changeux JP, Cartaud J.

Author information: 
(1)Biologie Cellulaire des Membranes, Institut Jacques Monod, Université Paris
VII, France.

The junction between motor nerve and skeletal muscle in vertebrates is
characterized by a complex subneural structure in which the nicotinic
acetylcholine receptor (AChR) accumulates at a surface density of up to
10,000-20,000 molecules per microns 2. Among the mechanisms involved in the
maintenance of the accumulation of AChR molecules is the localized expression of 
AChR subunit genes in the sarcoplasmic nuclei underlying the motor endplate,
referred to as 'fundamental' by Ranvier. Immunocytochemical analysis has revealed
that in innervated muscle fibres, the Golgi apparatus is also localized to
subjunctional domains. We now report an accumulation of cold-stable and
acetylated microtubules in the region of the sarcoplasm underlying the endplate. 
Together, these observations indicate that the subsynaptic sarcoplasm represents 
a compartment that is specialized both for the transcription, post-translational 
processing and stabilization of proteins of the postsynaptic membrane, in
particular AChR, and for their targeting to the motor endplate.

DOI: 10.1038/344673a0 
PMID: 2325774  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Nature. 1990 Apr 12;344(6267):663-5.

Population structure of the human pseudoautosomal boundary.

Ellis N(1), Taylor A, Bengtsson BO, Kidd J, Rogers J, Goodfellow P.

Author information: 
(1)Imperial Cancer Research Fund, Lincoln's Inn Fields, London, UK.

The mammalian sex chromosomes are composed of two genetically distinct segments: 
the pseudoautosomal region, where recombination occurs between the X and Y
chromosomes, and the sex chromosome-specific parts. Between these two segments
the human sex chromosomes differ by the insertion of an Alu element on the Y
chromosome. We have surveyed the sequence variation in the boundary region using 
the polymerase chain reaction. Fifty seven Y and sixty X chromosomes from ten
different human populations were analysed. The X chromosomes were found to be
polymorphic at five positions in a 300-base-pair region. By contrast, all Y
chromosomes were identical except for one distal polymorphism shared with the X
chromosome.

DOI: 10.1038/344663a0 
PMID: 2325773  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Nature. 1990 Apr 12;344(6267):656-8.

Chloroplast DNA sequence from a miocene Magnolia species.

Golenberg EM(1), Giannasi DE, Clegg MT, Smiley CJ, Durbin M, Henderson D,
Zurawski G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Plant Sciences, University of California, Riverside
92521.

DNA has been successfully extracted from several samples of preserved tissue, the
oldest so far reported originating from a 13,000-year-old ground sloth. Both
severe damage to the preserved DNA, primarily due to oxidation of the
pyrimidines, has prevented the acquisition of sequence data from ancient samples 
except in a few cases. We report here the extraction of DNA from fossil leaf
samples from the Miocene Clarkia deposit (17-20 Myr old), the amplification of an
820-base pair (bp) DNA fragment from the chloroplast gene rbcL from a fossil of
the genus Magnolia, and its subsequent sequencing. The sequence was verified by
comparison with published and unpublished rbcL sequences. These results extend
our ability to analyse ancient DNA and may open new avenues into problems in
palaeobotany, biogeography, and in the calibration of mutation rates.

DOI: 10.1038/344656a0 
PMID: 2325772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Nature. 1990 Apr 12;344(6267):678-82.

Activation in vitro of NF-kappa B by phosphorylation of its inhibitor I kappa B.

Ghosh S(1), Baltimore D.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142.

Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappa B), which was first detected by its binding to
the kappa B site in the immunoglobulin kappa-gene enhancer, is important for the 
regulated expression of the kappa-gene and is partly responsible for the
induction in appropriate cells of interleukin-2 (IL-2), IL-2 alpha receptor,
beta-interferon and serum amyloid A protein. NF-kappa B is present as a nuclear
DNA-binding protein in B lymphocytes and mature macrophages, but is found in the 
cytoplasm of many cells in a form unable to bind to DNA. The cytoplasmic form is 
bound to an inhibitor protein, I kappa B, from which it can be released in vitro 
by deoxycholate and other agents. Activation of cells by various agents, notably 
the phorbol esters that stimulate protein kinase C (PKC), leads to dissociation
in vivo of the NF-kappa B/I kappa B complex and migration of NF-kappa B to the
nucleus. Therefore, it acts as a second messenger system, transducing activation 
signals from the cytoplasm to the nucleus. To elucidate the mechanism of signal
transfer, we have used an in vitro system in which addition of purified protein
kinases to a partially purified NF-kappa B/I kappa B complex leads to the
activation of the DNA-binding activity of NF-kappa B. Using gel retardation
assays we found that PKC, cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) and a
haem-regulated eIF-2 kinase (HRI) could activate NF-kappa B in vitro, whereas
casein kinase II was ineffective. To determine the target for the protein kinases
we purified and characterized both NF-kappa B and I kappa B and found that I
kappa B is phosphorylated and inactivated in the presence of PKC and HRI but not 
PKA.

DOI: 10.1038/344678a0 
PMID: 2157987  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Nature. 1990 Apr 12;344(6267):675-8.

Mitosis-specific phosphorylation causes 83K non-muscle caldesmon to dissociate
from microfilaments.

Yamashiro S(1), Yamakita Y, Ishikawa R, Matsumura F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Rutgers University,
Piscataway, New Jersey 08854-1059.

At mitosis in eukaryotic cells there are profound changes of shape and structure 
whose causes are almost entirely obscure. What is known is that there are changes
in the organization of microfilaments, including the disassembly of microfilament
bundles during prophases and the accompanying rounding-up of cultured cells; the 
formation of transient contractile rings during cytokinesis; and, subsequently,
the reassembly of microfilament bundles and the respreading of the two daughter
cells. As an initial step towards the biochemical understanding of these events, 
in which the disassembly and reassembly of microfilaments appear to play an
important part, we searched for alterations of the molecular constitution of
microfilaments during mitosis. We found that non-muscle caldesmon, a protein with
a relative molecular mass (Mr) of 83,000 (83K) which binds to actin and
calmodulin, is dissociated from microfilaments during mitosis, apparently as a
consequence of phosphorylation. This process may contribute to the changes of
shape and structure of cells in mitosis, as caldesmon inhibits actomyosin ATPase.

DOI: 10.1038/344675a0 
PMID: 2157986  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Nature. 1990 Apr 12;344(6267):633-8.

Purification, cloning, expression and biological characterization of an
interleukin-1 receptor antagonist protein.

Carter DB(1), Deibel MR Jr, Dunn CJ, Tomich CS, Laborde AL, Slightom JL, Berger
AE, Bienkowski MJ, Sun FF, McEwan RN, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology Research, Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo, Michigan 
49007.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Apr 12;344(6267):584.

A human myelomonocytic cell line, U937, produced an interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor
antagonist protein (IRAP) which was purified and partially sequenced. A
complementary DNA coding for IRAP was cloned and sequenced. The mature
translation product of the cDNA has been expressed in Escherichia coli and was an
active competitive inhibitor of the binding of IL-1 to the T-cell/fibroblast form
of the IL-1 receptor. Recombinant IRAP specifically inhibited IL-1 bioactivity on
T cells and endothelial cells in vitro and was a potent inhibitor of IL-1 induced
corticosterone production in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/344633a0 
PMID: 2139180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Nature. 1990 Apr 12;344(6267):667-70.

Biological properties of a CD4 immunoadhesin.

Byrn RA(1), Mordenti J, Lucas C, Smith D, Marsters SA, Johnson JS, Cossum P,
Chamow SM, Wurm FM, Gregory T, Groopman JE, Capon DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Genentech Inc., South San Francisco, California 94080.

Molecular fusions of CD4, the receptor for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV),
with immunoglobulin (termed CD4 immunoadhesins) possess both the gp120-binding
and HIV-blocking properties of recombinant soluble CD4, and certain properties of
IgG, notably long plasma half-life and Fc receptor binding. Here we show that a
CD4 immunoadhesin can mediate antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity
(ADCC) towards HIV-infected cells, although, unlike natural anti-gp120
antibodies, it does not allow ADCC towards uninfected CD4-expressing cells that
have bound soluble gp120 to the CD4 on their surface. In addition, CD4
immunoadhesin, like natural IgG molecules, is efficiently transferred across the 
placenta of a primate. These observations have implications for the therapeutic
application of CD4 immunoadhesins, particularly in the area of perinatal
transmission of HIV infection.

DOI: 10.1038/344667a0 
PMID: 1970124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Nature. 1990 Apr 12;344(6267):685-8.

Role of a subdomain in the folding of bovine pancreatic trypsin inhibitor.

Staley JP(1), Kim PS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge
02139.

The disulphide-bonded intermediates that accumulate in the oxidative folding of
bovine pancreatic trypsin inhibitor (BPTI) were characterized some time ago.
Structural characterization of these intermediates would provide an explanation
of the kinetically preferred pathways of folding for BPTI. When folding occurs
under strongly oxidizing conditions, more than half the molecules become trapped 
in an intermediate, designated N*, which is similar to the native protein but
lacks the 30-51 disulphide bond. We have tested the hypothesis that the precursor
to N* is the one-disulphide intermediate [5-55], which contains the most stable
disulphide in BPTI, and present evidence here that this is the case. A peptide
model of [5-55], corresponding to a subdomain of BPTI, seems to fold into a
native-like conformation, explaining why [5-55] does not lead to native protein
and why it folds rapidly to N*. A native-like subdomain structure in a peptide
model of [30-51], the other crucial one-disulphide intermediate, may explain the 
route by which [30-51] folds to native protein. Thus, much of the folding pathway
of BPTI can be explained by the formation of a native-like subdomain in these two
early intermediates. This suggests that a large part of the protein folding
problem can be reduced to identifying and understanding subdomains of native
proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/344685a0 
PMID: 1691452  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Nature. 1990 Apr 12;344(6267):682-5.

Transcriptional silencing and thermoregulation of gene expression in Escherichia 
coli.

Göransson M(1), Sondén B, Nilsson P, Dagberg B, Forsman K, Emanuelsson K, Uhlin
BE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Umeå, Sweden.

Expression of specific adhesive properties by bacteria in general seems to be
regulated to fit the environmental conditions. An example is the transcriptional 
regulation of digalactoside-specific binding by uropathogenic strains of
Escherichia coli. The fimbrial structures (pili) on the bacterial surface carry
the adhesin and are present during growth at 37 degrees C but are not produced by
cells at lower temperatures, such as 25 degrees C. Thermoregulation of expression
is due to temperature-dependent transcription of a regulatory cistron in the
pilus-adhesin gene cluster. We have now identified and characterized a new
regulatory locus (drdX) and show that a histone-like bacterial protein has an
important role in this novel example of thermoregulation of transcription.

DOI: 10.1038/344682a0 
PMID: 1691451  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Nature. 1990 Apr 12;344(6267):665-7.

A frame-shift mutation in the cystic fibrosis gene.

White MB(1), Amos J, Hsu JM, Gerrard B, Finn P, Dean M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Viral Carcinogenesis, National Cancer Institute, Frederick,
Maryland 21701.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a common recessive lethal genetic disorder, affecting 1
in 1,600 Caucasians. The disease causes defective regulation of chloride-ion
transport in exocrine cells. Although in all CF families the disease is linked to
a locus on chromosome 7q31, there is clinical heterogeneity in the severity of
the disease and the age at which it is diagnosed. CF is caused by mutations in
the CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. A three-nucleotide
deletion (delta F508) causing the loss of a phenylalanine residue in the tenth
exon of the CFTR gene has been found on 70% of CF chromosomes. We have now
characterized a CF family in which neither parent of the affected individual
carries the common mutation, and identified a two-nucleotide insertion in the CF 
allele of the mother. The mutation introduces a termination codon in exon 13 of
the CFTR gene at residue 821, and is predicted to result in the production of a
severely truncated nonfunctional protein.

DOI: 10.1038/344665a0 
PMID: 1691449  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Nature. 1990 Apr 5;344(6266):556-9.

Sequencing and expression of complementary DNA for the general transcription
factor BTF3.

Zheng XM(1), Black D, Chambon P, Egly JM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Génétique Moléculaire des Eucaryotes du CNRS, Unité 184 de
Biologie Moléculaire et de Génie Génétique de L'INSERM, Faculté de Médecine,
Strasbourg, France.

The initiation of transcription of eukaryotic genes involves the ordered assembly
of a multiprotein complex on proximal promoter elements such as the TATA box. In 
addition to RNA polymerase II (otherwise RNA pol II, RNA polymerase B), four
general transcription factors are required for initiation of transcription: BTF1 
(also referred to as TFIID) which has recently been cloned from yeast, BTF2, BTF3
and STF. The first step in assembly of the initiation complex is the stable
binding of BTF1 to the TATA box, which is facilitated by STF. Neither BTF2 nor
BTF3 bind directly to the promoter proximal elements, but BTF3 can form a stable 
complex with RNA pol II. We recently purified BTF3, which is a protein of
relative molecular mass 27,000, but further studies have been hampered by its low
abundance in cells. On the basis of sequences from peptides of BTF3, we have now 
cloned two complementary DNAs, one for a protein (BTF3a) with all the
characteristics of purified BTF3, and one for a shorter protein (BTF3b) lacking
the first 44 residues of BTF3a and which is transcriptionally inactive, despite
its ability to bind RNA pol II.

DOI: 10.1038/344556a0 
PMID: 2320128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Nature. 1990 Apr 5;344(6266):549-52.

Regulation of mitosis by cyclic accumulation of p80cdc25 mitotic inducer in
fission yeast.

Moreno S(1), Nurse P, Russell P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Oxford, UK.

The coordination of somatic cell division with cell size must be accomplished by 
the accumulation of mitotic inducers or the dilution, in the course of cell
growth, of mitotic inhibitors. In fission yeast (Schizosaccharomyces pombe), cell
size at mitosis is determined by expression of the cdc25+ and nim1+ inducer genes
and of the inhibitor gene wee1+, which between them regulate the M-phase protein 
kinase p34cdc2. We now report that both the phosphoprotein product of cdc25+
(p80cdc25, with apparent relative molecular mass 80,000) and the corresponding
messenger RNA increase in concentration as cells proceed through interphase,
peaking at mitosis. We propose that the cell-cycle timing of mitosis in somatic
cells is regulated by the cyclic accumulation of the cdc25 mitotic inducer, which
on reaching a critical level results in activation of p34cdc2 protein kinase.
Accumulation of this inducer could play a part in coordinating cell division with
growth.

DOI: 10.1038/344549a0 
PMID: 2320127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Nature. 1990 Apr 5;344(6266):544-7.

Imprinting of acetylcholine receptor messenger RNA accumulation in mammalian
neuromuscular synapses.

Brenner HR(1), Witzemann V, Sakmann B.

Author information: 
(1)Physiologisches Institut, Universität Basel, Switzerland.

IN mammalian muscle, the subunit composition of the nicotinic acetylcholine
receptor (AChR) and the distribution of AChRs along the fibre are developmentally
regulated. In fetal muscle, AChRs are distributed over the entire fibre length
whereas in adult fibres they are concentrated at the end-plate. We have used in
situ hybridization techniques to measure the development of the synaptic
localization of the messenger RNAs (mRNAs) encoding the alpha-subunit and the
epsilon-subunit of the rat muscle AChR. The alpha-subunit is present in both
fetal and adult muscle, whereas the epsilon-subunit appears postnatally and
specifies the mature AChR subtype. The synaptic localization of alpha-subunit
mRNA in adult fibres may arise from the selective down-regulation of
constitutively expressed mRNA from extrasynaptic fibre segments. In contrast,
epsilon-subunit mRNA appears locally at the site of neuromuscular contact and its
accumulation at the end-plate is not dependent on the continued presence of the
nerve terminal very early during synapse formation. This suggests that
epsilon-subunit mRNA expression is induced locally via a signal which is
restricted to the end-plate region and is dependent on the presence of the nerve 
only during a short period of early neuromuscular contact. Evidently, several
mechanisms operate to confine AChR mRNAs to the adult end-plate region, and the
levels of alpha-subunit and epsilon-subunit mRNAs depend on these mechanisms to
differing degrees.

DOI: 10.1038/344544a0 
PMID: 2320126  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Nature. 1990 Apr 5;344(6266):540-1.

Genetic mapping of chronic childhood-onset spinal muscular atrophy to chromosome 
5q11.2-13.3.

Brzustowicz LM(1), Lehner T, Castilla LH, Penchaszadeh GK, Wilhelmsen KC, Daniels
R, Davies KE, Leppert M, Ziter F, Wood D, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Columbia University, New York, New York.

SPINAL muscular atrophy (SMA) describes a group of heritable degenerative
diseases that selectively affect the alpha-motor neuron. Childhood-onset SMAs
rank second in frequency to cystic fibrosis among autosomal recessive disorders, 
and are the leading cause of heritable infant mortality. Predictions that genetic
heterogeneity underlies the differences between types of SMA, together with the
aggressive nature of the most-severe infantile form, make linkage analysis of SMA
potentially complex. We have now analysed 13 clinically heterogeneous SMA
families. We find that 'chronic' childhood-onset SMA (including intermediate SMA 
or SMA type II, and Kugelberg-Welander or SMA type III) is genetically
homogeneous, mapping to chromosomal region 5q11.2-13.3.

DOI: 10.1038/344540a0 
PMID: 2320125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Nature. 1990 Apr 5;344(6266):565-7.

Mixed deoxyribo- and ribo-oligonucleotides with catalytic activity.

Perreault JP(1), Wu TF, Cousineau B, Ogilvie KK, Cedergren R.

Author information: 
(1)Département de biochimie, Université de Montréal, Québec, Canada.

The RNA of viroids and virusoids in plants, and the RNA transcripts of some
tandemly repeated DNA sequences in the newt, can undergo self-catalysed cleavage 
to generate RNA with 5'-OH and 2',3'-cyclic-phosphate termini. These catalytic
RNAs, or ribozymes, form a stem-loop secondary structure called a 'hammerhead' in
which the catalytic (ribozyme) and substrate sequences are brought close
together. Catalytically active mimics of hammerhead ribozymes can be readily made
using oligoribonucleotides. Consequently, hammerhead analogues in which certain
ribonucleotides are replaced by different ones have been constructed both to
identify consensus residues required for cleavage activity and to determine the
details of the cleavage mechanism. But these ribonucleotide-replacements tend to 
alter the conformation of the hammerhead by changing hydrogen-bonding and
stacking potential at the position of substitution. We have now constructed
structurally less-disrupted hammerhead analogues in which deoxyribonucleotides,
which lack 2'-OH groups, are substituted for ribonucleotides. These mixed RNA-DNA
polymers were synthesized using a strategy for the chemical synthesis of RNA that
is compatible with DNA synthesis. Analysis of the cleavage products of several of
these hammerhead analogues confirms the involvement in the reaction of the 2'-OH 
adjacent to the cleavage site in the substrate, and demonstrates that some 2'-OH 
groups in the catalytic region strongly affect activity. The results also
indicate that the three-dimensional structure producing nucleic acid-type
catalysis is not restricted to RNA.

DOI: 10.1038/344565a0 
PMID: 2181322  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Nature. 1990 Apr 5;344(6266):562-5.

The heptad repeat in the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II binds by
intercalating into DNA.

Suzuki M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Physiology, National Institute for Physiological
Sciences, Okazak, Japan.

A TANDEM repeat of the sequence Ser-Pro-Thr-Ser-Pro-Ser-Tyr has been found at the
C terminus in the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II (refs 1-5) with, for
example, 26 units in yeast and 52 in mammals. By removal of this 'tail', it has
been shown that 11-23 units are necessary for the normal functioning of the
polymerase. The functional role of the repeat is however, unclear, although it
has been proposed that it binds to transcription factors. As discussed in an
earlier paper, the repeat unit contains two Ser-Pro sequences which seem to be
related to a DNA-binding unit found in histones, Ser-Pro-Lys-Lys, and to the
Ser-Pro-X-X motif which is often found in gene regulatory proteins and which, it 
has been proposed, is also a DNA-binding unit. Here, I show that the repeat does 
indeed bind DNA and present evidence that it does so by the intercalation of
tyrosine residues. These experiments involved synthetic peptides containing one
or two repeat units. As the sequence Ser-Pro-X-X (where X represents any amino
acid) has a strong tendency to assume a special beta-turn, a model of the unit
composed of two such beta-turns was made and compared with the structure of the
drug Triostin A which is known to intercalate into DNA. Two tyrosine side chains 
of the repeat overlap well with two quinoxaline rings of the drug and therefore, 
the model can provide a good explanation of the experimental results.

DOI: 10.1038/344562a0 
PMID: 2181321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Nature. 1990 Apr 5;344(6266):559-62.

Specific interaction of the murine transcription termination factor TTF I with
class-I RNA polymerases.

Kuhn A(1), Bartsch I, Grummt I.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Biochemie, Würzburg, FRG.

The 18-base-pair sequence element AGGTCGACCAGTACTCCG (the Sal box) signals
termination of mouse ribosomal gene transcription. This sequence is recognized by
a sequence-specific DNA-binding protein, TTF I, which mediates the termination of
transcription by RNA polymerase I (pol I). Subsequently, the ends of the primary 
transcripts are trimmed by 10 nucleotides in a sequence-dependent 3'-terminal
processing reaction. We have now investigated whether TTF I bound to its target
sequence will block elongation by any RNA polymerase by steric hindrance, or
whether it is specific for elongation by pol I. The results demonstrate that TTF 
I directs transcription termination with RNA polymerase I from species as
divergent as mouse and yeast, but fails to affect elongation by heterologous
polymerases (eukaryotic RNA polymerases II and III, Escherichia coli or
bacteriophage T3 RNA polymerase). By contrast, purified lac repressor bound to
its operator sequence stops elongation by both RNA polymerase I and II.

DOI: 10.1038/344559a0 
PMID: 2181320  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Nature. 1990 Apr 5;344(6266):541-4.

Fulminant hypertension in transgenic rats harbouring the mouse Ren-2 gene.

Mullins JJ(1), Peters J, Ganten D.

Author information: 
(1)German Institute for High Blood Pressure Research, University of Heidelberg.

PRIMARY hypertension is a polygenic condition in which blood pressure is
enigmatically elevated; it remains a leading cause of cardiovascular disease and 
death due to cerebral haemorrhage, cardiac failure and kidney disease. The genes 
for several of the proteins involved in blood pressure homeostasis have been
cloned and characterized, including those of the renin-angiotensin system, which 
plays a central part in blood pressure control. Here we describe the introduction
of the mouse Ren-2 renin gene into the genome of the rat and demonstrate that
expression of this gene causes severe hypertension. These transgenic animals
represent a model for hypertension in which the genetic basis for the disease is 
known. Further, as the transgenic animals do not overexpress active renin in the 
kidney and have low levels of active renin in their plasma, they also provide a
new model for low-renin hypertension.

DOI: 10.1038/344541a0 
PMID: 2181319  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Nature. 1990 Apr 5;344(6266):568-70.

Protection against UV-induced pyrimidine dimerization in DNA by triplex
formation.

Lyamichev VI(1), Frank-Kamenetskii MD, Soyfer VN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, Ohio State University, Columbus 43210-1292.

Cyclobutane and [6-4]-pyrimidine dimers are major photoproducts of
ultraviolet-irradiated DNA. The yield of these photoproducts is dependent on the 
sequence and structure of the DNA. By analysing the photofootprints of fragments 
produced by cleavage of the DNA chain near [6-4]-pyrimidine dimers, we show here 
that a homopurine-homopyrimidine insert (with either d(TC)x or d(C)n) in plasmid 
pUC19 is, as expected, a good target for UV-induced pyrimidine-dimer formation.
But we find that dimerization is virtually completely suppressed when the
pyrimidine oligonucleotides d(TC)y or d(C)m are added to DNA carrying d(TC)x- or 
d(C)n-containing inserts, respectively. This effect is dependent on the type of
oligonucleotide used and is site-specific. The protection occurs under acidic
conditions that favour the formation of intermolecular triplexes between the
homopurine-homopyrimidine inserts and homologous oligopyrimidines. We therefore
conclude that triplex formation effectively protects the DNA duplex from
UV-induced damage (pyrimidine dimerization). This observation makes the
photofootprinting assay a very promising method for studying intermolecular and
intramolecular triplexes (H-form DNA) both in vitro and in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/344568a0 
PMID: 2157166  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Nature. 1990 Apr 5;344(6266):537-9.

ESR dating evidence for early modern humans at Border Cave in South Africa.

Grün R(1), Beaumont PB, Stringer CB.

Author information: 
(1)Subdepartment of Quaternary Research, Cambridge University, UK.

The archaeological and hominid site of Border Cave (KwaZulu, South Africa) has a 
stratigraphic sequence covering the Middle and Later Stone Ages (MSA and LSA). It
has been proposed that four hominid specimens recovered there (BC1 and BC2 of
uncertain provenance, and BC3 and BC5 recovered from MSA layers) represent very
early examples of anatomically modern humans, supporting an early
late-Pleistocene appearance of modern Homo sapiens in Africa. This early
appearance, however, has been questioned, largely because of doubts about the
stratigraphic positions associated with the specimens and because of the lack of 
a reliable chronology for the stratigraphic sequence. We now report on the first 
comprehensive radiometric dating analysis of Border Cave, using electron spin
resonance (ESR) on teeth within sediment layers. BC3 is likely to be
approximately 70-80 kyr old, and BC5, 50-65 kyr old. BC1 and BC2 are almost
certainly less than 90 kyr old. These results, although younger than some age
estimates, support the early occurrence of anatomically modern humans at Border
Cave. In addition, our results suggest that the Howiesons Poort lithic industry
(approximately 45-75 kyr) and the MSA-LSA transition (approximately 35 kyr) are
younger than often believed.

DOI: 10.1038/344537a0 
PMID: 2157165  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Nature. 1990 Apr 5;344(6266):517-22.

Myb DNA binding inhibited by phosphorylation at a site deleted during oncogenic
activation.

Lüscher B(1), Christenson E, Litchfield DW, Krebs EG, Eisenman RN.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Basic Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle,
Washington 98104.

The c-Myb nuclear oncoprotein is phosphorylated in vitro and in vivo at an
N-terminal site near its DNA-binding domain by casein kinase II (CK-II) or a
CK-II-like activity. This in vitro phosphorylation reversibly inhibits the
sequence-specific binding of c-Myb to DNA. The site of this phosphorylation is
deleted in nearly all oncogenically activated Myb proteins, resulting in
DNA-binding that is independent of CK-II. Because CK-II activity is modulated by 
growth factors, loss of the site could uncouple c-Myb from its normal
physiological regulator.

DOI: 10.1038/344517a0 
PMID: 2157164  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Nature. 1990 Apr 5;344(6266):503-8.

Universal control mechanism regulating onset of M-phase.

Nurse P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Oxford, UK.

The onset of M-phase is regulated by a mechanism common to all eukaryotic cells. 
Entry into M-phase is determined by activation of the p34cdc2 protein kinase
which requires p34cdc2 dephosphorylation and association with cyclin.

DOI: 10.1038/344503a0 
PMID: 2138713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Nature. 1990 Apr 5;344(6266):552-5.

Polymerase gene products of hepatitis B viruses are required for genomic RNA
packaging as wel as for reverse transcription.

Hirsch RC(1), Lavine JE, Chang LJ, Varmus HE, Ganem D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of California Medical
Center, San Francisco 94143.

All reactions involving reverse transcription of RNA are segregated from the
cytosol within a subviral particle or capsid composed of the major capsid
protein, the polymerase and the RNA template. A key step in the formation of
these particles is the selective encapsidation of the RNA template. Although an
important general feature of the reverse transcription pathway, encapsidation has
been carefully studied only for retroviruses. We have now examined the
encapsidation reaction in a family of enveloped DNA viruses that replicate by
reverse transcription--the hepatitis B viruses (hepadnaviruses). Our results
indicate that the hepadnaviral polymerase (P) gene product is required for RNA
packaging, and that the encapsidation function of the enzyme can be separated
from its DNA polymerase activity. To our knowledge, this is the first description
of a role for polymerase gene products in this step of the reverse transcription 
pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/344552a0 
PMID: 1690862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Nature. 1990 Mar 29;344(6265):447-9.

Megakaryocytic and erythrocytic lineages share specific transcription factors.

Romeo PH(1), Prandini MH, Joulin V, Mignotte V, Prenant M, Vainchenker W,
Marguerie G, Uzan G.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U.91, Hôpital Henri Mondor, Créteil, France.

Erythroid-specific genes contain binding sites for NF-E1 (also called GF-1 and
Eryf-1; refs 1-3 respectively), the principal DNA-binding protein of the
erythrocytic lineage. NF-E1 expression seems to be restricted to the erythrocytic
lineage. A closely related (if not identical) protein is found in both a human
megakaryocytic cell line and purified human megakaryocytes; it binds to promoter 
regions of two megakaryocytic-specific genes. The binding sites and partial
proteolysis profile of this protein are indistinguishable from those of the
erythroid protein; also, NF-E1 messenger RNA is the same size in both the
megakaryocytic and erythroid cell lines. Furthermore, point mutations that
abolish binding of NF-E1 result in a 70% decrease in the transcriptional activity
of a megakaryocytic-specific promoter. We also find that NF-E2, another
trans-acting factor of the erythrocytic lineage, is present in megakaryocytes.
Transcriptional effects in both lineages might then be mediated in part by the
same specific trans-acting factors. Our data strengthen the idea of a close
association between the erythrocytic and the megakaryocytic lineages and could
also explain the expression of markers specific to the erythrocytic and
megakaryocytic lineages in most erythroblastic and megakaryoblastic permanent
cell lines.

DOI: 10.1038/344447a0 
PMID: 2320113  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Nature. 1990 Mar 29;344(6265):444-7.

Expression of an erythroid transcription factor in megakaryocytic and mast cell
lineages.

Martin DI(1), Zon LI, Mutter G, Orkin SH.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts
02115.

The nuclear factor GF-1 (also known as NF-E1, Eryf-1; refs 1-3 respectively) is
important in regulation of the transcription of globin and other genes that are
specifically expressed in erythroid cells. We have previously shown that GF-1 of 
both mouse and human origin is a 413-amino-acid polypeptide with two novel
zinc-finger domains whose expression is restricted to erythroid cells. Using in
situ hybridization of mouse bone marrow cells and northern blot analysis of
purified cell populations and permanent cell lines, we show here that GF-1 is
expressed in two other hematopoietic lineages, megakaryocytes and bone
marrow-derived mast cells. Our findings are consistent with results from
hematopoietic progenitor culture which suggest a relationship between erythroid, 
megakaryocytic and mast cell lineages, and imply that GF-1 is expressed in
committed multipotential cells and their progeny. Hence, the mere presence of
this transcription factor is unlikely to be sufficient to programme
differentiation of a single haematopoietic lineage. GF-1 may regulate the
transcription of not only erythroid genes, but also many genes characteristic of 
megakaryocytes and mast cells, or genes shared among these lineages.

DOI: 10.1038/344444a0 
PMID: 2320112  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Nature. 1990 Mar 29;344(6265):442-4.

Identification and characterization of an inhibitor of haemopoietic stem cell
proliferation.

Graham GJ(1), Wright EG, Hewick R, Wolpe SD, Wilkie NM, Donaldson D, Lorimore S, 
Pragnell IB.

Author information: 
(1)Beatson Institute for Cancer Research, Glasgow, UK.

The haemopoietic system has three main compartments: multi-potential stem cells, 
intermediate stage progenitor cells and mature cells. The availability of simple 
reproducible culture systems has made possible the characterization and
purification of regulators of the progenitor cells, including colony-stimulating 
factors and interleukins. In contrast, our knowledge of the regulators involved
in the control of stem cell proliferation is limited. The steady-state quiescent 
status of the haemopoietic stem cell compartment is thought to be controlled by
locally acting regulatory elements present in the stromal microenvironment, but
their purification has been hampered by the lack of suitable culture systems. We 
have recently developed a novel in vitro colony assay that detects a primitive
cell (CFU-A) which has similar proliferative characteristics, in normal and
regenerating bone marrow, to the CFU-S (haemopoietic stem cells, as defined by
the spleen colony assay) and which responds to CFU-S-specific proliferation
regulators. We have now used this assay to purify to homogeneity a
macrophage-derived reversible inhibitor of haemopoietic stem cell proliferation
(stem cell inhibitor, SCI). Antibody inhibition and sequence data indicate that
SCI is identical to a previously described cytokine, macrophage inflammatory
protein-1 alpha (MIP-1 alpha), and that SCI/MIP-1 alpha is functionally and
antigenically identical to the CFU-S inhibitory activity obtained from primary
cultures of normal bone marrow cells. The biological activities of SCI/MIP-1
alpha suggest that it is a primary negative regulator of stem cell proliferation 
and that it has important therapeutic applications in protecting haemopoietic
stem cells from damage during cytotoxic therapies for cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/344442a0 
PMID: 2320111  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Nature. 1990 Mar 29;344(6265):431-5.

Segmentation in the chick embryo hindbrain is defined by cell lineage
restrictions.

Fraser S(1), Keynes R, Lumsden A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, University of California, Irvine
92717.

In the chick embryo hindbrain, morphological segmentation into rhombomeres is
matched by metameric patterns of early neuronal differentiation and axonogenesis.
Boundaries between rhombomeres coincide with boundaries of expression of murine
regulatory genes. By clonal analysis using intracellular marking, we show here
that the rhombomere boundaries are partitions across which cells do not move.
When a parent cell is marked before the appearance of rhombomere boundaries, the 
resulting clone is able to spread into the neighbouring rhombomere. When marked
after boundary appearance, the clone still expands freely within the rhombomere
of origin, but it is now restricted at the boundaries. Rhombomeres in the chick
embryo thus behave like polyclonal units, raising the possibility that they are
analogous to the compartments of insects.

DOI: 10.1038/344431a0 
PMID: 2320110  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Nature. 1990 Mar 29;344(6265):410-4.

A sodium-potassium switch in the formation of four-stranded G4-DNA.

Sen D(1), Gilbert W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Development Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138.

Single-stranded complex guanine-rich DNA sequences from chromosomal telomeres and
elsewhere can associate to form stable parallel four-stranded structures termed
G4-DNA by a process that is anomalously dependent on the particular alkali metal 
cation that is present. The anomaly, which is not found in the formation of
G4-DNA by oligonucleotides containing short, single runs of three or more
guanines, is caused by potassium cations excessively stabilizing fold-back
intermediate structures, or pathway by-products.

DOI: 10.1038/344410a0 
PMID: 2320109  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Nature. 1990 Mar 29;344(6265):463-6.

Transactivation of c-fos and beta-actin genes by raf as a step in early response 
to transmembrane signals.

Jamal S(1), Ziff E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, New York University Medical Center, New York
10016.

A primary response to many growth factor-induced transmembrane signals is the
rapid activation of transcription of the proto-oncogene c-fos and other
early-response genes, including the beta-actin gene. The c-raf gene encodes a
cytoplasmic serine/threonine kinase, raf-1, whose activity is also responsive to 
transmembrane signals and which in mutant form can transform cells. Here we show 
that in transient assays, the v-raf protein, which is a constitutively activated 
oncogenic counterpart of raf-1, can transactivate transcription from two
early-response promoters, including the c-fos promoter from human and murine
cells and the human beta-actin gene promoter. Multiple elements of the human fos 
promoter, including the dyad symmetry element necessary for growth-factor
induction, an octanucleotide direct repeat element, and the region spanning the
sequence from nucleotides -225 to -99 can all serve as targets for raf induction.
The c-myc promoter and two adenovirus-2 early promoters are not induced. These
findings indicate that raf kinase, when activated by a transmembrane signal or by
mutation of a regulatory domain, can phosphorylate a factor(s) capable of
regulating transcription of the c-fos and actin genes. The oncogenic form of raf 
may transform by constitutively activating early response protooncogenes such as 
c-fos.

DOI: 10.1038/344463a0 
PMID: 2157161  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Nature. 1990 Mar 29;344(6265):454-8.

Effect of cell history on response to helix-loop-helix family of myogenic
regulators.

Schäfer BW(1), Blakely BT, Darlington GJ, Blau HM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Stanford University School of Medicine, California
94305-5332.

In multinucleated heterokaryons formed from the fusion of differentiated muscle
cells to either hepatocytes or fibroblasts, muscle-specific gene expression is
activated, liver-specific gene expression is repressed, and there are changes in 
the location of the Golgi apparatus. An understanding of the regulatory
mechanisms that underlie this plasticity is of particular interest given the
stability of the differentiated state in vivo. We have now investigated whether
MyoD or myogenin, regulators of muscle-specific gene expression that have a
helix-loop-helix motif, can induce the phenotypic conversion observed in
heterokaryons. When these regulators were stably or transiently introduced into
fibroblasts or hepatocytes by microinjection, transfection or retroviral
infection with complementary DNA in expression vectors, fibroblasts expressed
muscle-specific genes, whereas hepatocytes did not. However, fusion of
hepatocytes stably expressing MyoD to fibroblasts resulted in activation in the
heterokaryon of muscle-specific genes of both cell types. These results imply
that other regulators, present in fibroblasts but not in hepatocytes, are
necessary for the activation of muscle-specific genes, and indicate that the
differentiated state of a cell is dictated by its history and a dynamic
interaction among the proteins that it contains.

DOI: 10.1038/344454a0 
PMID: 2157160  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Nature. 1990 Mar 29;344(6265):451-3.

Cardiac-type excitation-contraction coupling in dysgenic skeletal muscle injected
with cardiac dihydropyridine receptor cDNA.

Tanabe T(1), Mikami A, Numa S, Beam KG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Chemistry, Kyoto University Faculty of Medicine, Japan.

There are dihydropyridine (DHP)-sensitive calcium currents in both skeletal and
cardiac muscle cells, although the properties of these currents are very
different in the two cell types (for simplicity, we refer to currents in both
tissues as L-type). The mechanisms of depolarization-contraction coupling also
differ. As the predominant voltage-dependent calcium current of cardiac cells,
the L-type current represents a major pathway for entry of extracellular calcium.
This entry triggers the subsequent large release of calcium from the sarcoplasmic
reticulum (SR). In contrast, depolarization of skeletal muscle releases calcium
from the SR without the requirement for entry of extracellular calcium through
L-type calcium channels. To investigate the molecular basis for these differences
in calcium currents and in excitation-contraction (E-C) coupling, we expressed
complementary DNAs for the DHP receptors from skeletal and cardiac muscle in
dysgenic skeletal muscle. We compared the properties of the L-type channels
produced and showed that expression of a cardiac calcium channel in skeletal
muscle cells results in E-C coupling resembling that of cardiac muscle.

DOI: 10.1038/344451a0 
PMID: 2157159  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Nature. 1990 Mar 29;344(6265):449-51.

Direct measurement of exocytosis and calcium currents in single vertebrate nerve 
terminals.

Lim NF(1), Nowycky MC, Bookman RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 19104.

The release of neurohormone is widely thought to be exocytotic, involving
Ca2(+)-dependent fusion of secretory vesicles with the plasma membrane. The
inaccessibility of most nerve ending has so far hampered direct time-resolved
measurements of neuronal exocytosis in response to brief depolarization. By using
'whole-terminal' patch-clamp and circuit-analysis techniques to measure membrane 
capacitance, we have now monitored changes in the surface membrane area of
individual nerve terminals isolated from the mammalian neurohypophysis. A single 
depolarizing pulse leading to Ca2+ entry through voltage-gated calcium channels, 
rapidly and reproducibly increases the membrane area by an amount corresponding
to the fusion of 1-100 secretory vesicles. The magnitude of the capacitance
increase depends not only on Ca2+ entry and buffering, but also on the pattern of
stimulation revealing facilitation, fatigue and recovery of the release process.

DOI: 10.1038/344449a0 
PMID: 2157158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Nature. 1990 Mar 29;344(6265):439-41.

Peptide ligand-induced conformation and surface expression of the Ld class I MHC 
molecule.

Lie WR(1), Myers NB, Gorka J, Rubocki RJ, Connolly JM, Hansen TH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis,
Missouri 63110.

Newly synthesized major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules in the
endoplasmic reticulum are thought to bind peptides of foreign and endogenous
antigens. Several lines of evidence indicate that beta-2 microglobulin (beta 2m) 
and/or peptide ligand participate in the intracellular transport and surface
expression of class I molecules, but the nature of their involvement is still
unclear. Here we present evidence that culturing non-mutant cells (fibroblast,
thymoma or mastocytoma) with a peptide ligand specific for the Ld class I
molecule of the mouse leads to a dramatic (fourfold) and specific induction of Ld
surface expression. Surprisingly, this peptide ligand-induced expression of Ld
does not result in an increased intracellular association of Ld with beta 2m.
These findings demonstrate that the previously reported decrease in surface
expression of Ld results from its failure to be saturated with endogenous
self-peptide ligands. This unique feature of Ld could also contribute to the fact
that several virus-specific cytotoxic T cell responses have been found to be
Ld-restricted.

DOI: 10.1038/344439a0 
PMID: 2157157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Nature. 1990 Mar 29;344(6265):395-400.

Signal transduction in bacteria.

Stock JB(1), Stock AM, Mottonen JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Princeton University, New Jersey 08544.

Cells display a remarkable ability to respond to small fluctuations in their
surroundings. In simple microbial systems, information from sensory receptors
feeds into a circuitry of regulatory proteins that transfer high energy
phosphoryl groups from histidine to aspartate side chains. This phosphotransfer
network couples environmental signals to an array of response elements that
control cell motility and regulate gene expression.

DOI: 10.1038/344395a0 
PMID: 2157156  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Nature. 1990 Mar 29;344(6265):467-8.

Selection in vitro of an RNA enzyme that specifically cleaves single-stranded
DNA.

Robertson DL(1), Joyce GF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Research Institute of Scripps Clinic, La Jolla,
California 92037.

The discovery of RNA enzymes has, for the first time, provided a single molecule 
that has both genetic and catalytic properties. We have devised techniques for
the mutation, selection and amplification of catalytic RNA, all of which can be
performed rapidly in vitro. Here we describe how these techniques can be
integrated and performed repeatedly within a single reaction vessel. This allows 
evolution experiments to be carried out in response to artificially imposed
selection constraints. We worked with the Tetrahymena ribozyme, a self-splicing
group I intron derived from the large ribosomal RNA precursor of Tetrahymena
thermophila that catalyses sequence-specific phosphoester transfer reactions
involving RNA substrates. It consists of 413 nucleotides, and assumes a
well-defined secondary and tertiary structure responsible for its catalytic
activity. We selected for variant forms of the enzyme that could best react with 
a DNA substrate. This led to the recovery of a mutant form of the enzyme that
cleaves DNA more efficiently than the wild-type enzyme. The selected molecule
represents the discovery of the first RNA enzyme known to cleave single-stranded 
DNA specifically.

DOI: 10.1038/344467a0 
PMID: 1690861  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Nature. 1990 Mar 29;344(6265):461-3.

Binding of the Drosophila sex-lethal gene product to the alternative splice site 
of transformer primary transcript.

Inoue K(1), Hoshijima K, Sakamoto H, Shimura Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biophysics, Faculty of Science, Kyoto University, Japan.

Somatic sexual differentiation in Drosophila melanogaster is accomplished by a
hierarchy of genes of which one, Sex-lethal (Sxl), is required for the functional
female-specific splicing of the transcripts of the immediately downstream
regulatory gene, transformer (tra). The first exon of the tra primary transcript 
is spliced to one of two acceptor sites. Splicing to the upstream site yields a
messenger RNA which is neither sex-specific nor functional, but that produced
after splicing to the downstream acceptor site yields a functional
female-specific mRNA. Here we address the question of how the Sxl gene product
determines the alternative splicing of tra primary transcripts. One suggestion is
that non-sex-specific splicing to the upstream acceptor is blocked in female
flies by sex-specific factors, but neither the identity of the female-specific
factors nor the mechanism of the blockage has been specified. We have now
performed co-transfection experiments in which Sxl complementary DNA and the tra 
gene are expressed in Drosophila Kc cells. Moreover, we find that female
Sxl-encoded protein binds specifically to the tra transcript at or near the
non-sex-specific acceptor site, implying that the female Sxl gene product is the 
trans-acting factor that regulates the alternative splicing.

DOI: 10.1038/344461a0 
PMID: 1690860  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Nature. 1990 Mar 29;344(6265):435-9.

New type of POU domain in germ line-specific protein Oct-4.

Schöler HR(1), Ruppert S, Suzuki N, Chowdhury K, Gruss P.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck Institute of Biophysical Chemistry, Department of Molecular Cell
Biology, Göttingen, FRG.

Members of a family of murine octamer-binding proteins interact specifically with
the octamer motif, a transcription regulatory element found in the promoter and
enhancer regions of many genes. Oct-4 is a maternally expressed protein that is
also present in the pre-implantation mouse embryo. Although many regulatory
proteins are expressed in post-implantation embryos, transcription factors
regulating pre-implantation processes have remained elusive. The Oct-4 gene is
therefore a prime candidate for an early developmental control gene. Here we
report the complementary DNA cloning of the mouse Oct-4 gene, and the
characterization of the encoded protein(s) by sequential in vitro transcription, 
translation, DNA-binding and protease-clipping analysis. Deletion analysis shows 
that the DNA-binding activity is mediated by a POU domain encoded in an open
reading frame corresponding to a 324-amino-acid protein. Sequence comparison with
known POU domains reveals that Oct-4 is a novel member of the POU-family.

DOI: 10.1038/344435a0 
PMID: 1690859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Nature. 1990 Mar 29;344(6265):405-9.

DNA cleavage catalysed by the ribozyme from Tetrahymena.

Herschlag D(1), Cech TR.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry,
University of Colorado, Boulder 80309-0215.

Erratum in
    Nature 1990 Apr 19;344(6268):792.

An RNA enzyme derived from the self-splicing intervening sequence of Tetrahymena 
thermophila catalyses sequence-specific cleavage of an oligodeoxyribonucleotide
substrate. Compared with RNA, the DNA substrate is bound very weakly and is
cleaved very slowly, revealing the importance of the RNA 2'-hydroxyl group in
both the binding and chemical steps. The finding that catalysis by RNA can extend
to DNA substrates indicates new possibilities for the transposition of
intervening sequences and for the design of DNA cleavage agents with novel
sequence specificities.

DOI: 10.1038/344405a0 
PMID: 1690858  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Nature. 1990 Mar 22;344(6264):363-4.

Reverse hydrophobic effects relieved by amino-acid substitutions at a protein
surface.

Pakula AA(1), Sauer RT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 02139.

It is rare for amino-acid substitutions on the surface of proteins to have large 
stabilizing or destabilizing effects. Nevertheless, one substitution of this
type, the Tyr 26----Cys mutation in lambda Cro, increases the melting temperature
of the protein by 11 degrees C and the stability by 2.2 kcal mol-1. Here we show 
that the stability of Cro can be increased by many different amino-acid
substitutions at position 26, with increasing stability showing a good
correlation with decreasing side-chain hydrophobicity. As Tyr 26 is hyper-exposed
to solvent in the Cro crystal structure, we suggest that wild-type and variant
proteins with other hydrophobic side chains at position 26 are destabilized as a 
result of a reverse hydrophobic effect caused by the side chain being more
exposed to solvent in the native than in the denatured state.

DOI: 10.1038/344363a0 
PMID: 2314475  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Nature. 1990 Mar 22;344(6264):342-5.

Retinofugal fibres change conduction velocity and diameter between the optic
nerve and tract in ferrets.

Baker GE(1), Stryker MP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Anatomy, University of Oxford, UK.

In earlier studies of central nervous fibre tracts, it was tacitly assumed that
individual axons are relatively uniform along their length. In the retinofugal
pathway in particular, axon diameter, myelin thickness and correlated conduction 
properties have been treated as constant throughout the optic nerve, chiasm and
tract. We report here that the conduction velocities of fibres contributing to
the early components of the compound action potential are significantly greater
in the optic tract than in the optic nerve of ferrets, and also that the
diameters of the largest retinofugal fibres increase from nerve to tract. This
observation raises significant questions about the developmental mechanisms in
the central nervous system that relate the axons, their diameters, and the glia
with which they are myelinated. In addition, it indicates that studies that have 
relied on the constancy of conduction velocity along the retinofugal course may
require reappraisal.

DOI: 10.1038/344342a0 
PMID: 2314474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Nature. 1990 Mar 22;344(6264):339-41.

Identification and characterization of a novel member of the nerve growth
factor/brain-derived neurotrophic factor family.

Hohn A(1), Leibrock J, Bailey K, Barde YA.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut for Psychiatry, Department of Neurochemistry,
Planegg-Martinsried, FRG.

The survival and functional maintenance of vertebrate neurons critically depends 
on the availability of specific neurotrophic factors. So far, only two such
factors, nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)
have been characterized and shown to have the typical features of secretory
proteins. This characterization has been possible because of the extraordinarily 
large quantities of NGF in some adult tissues, and the virtually unlimited
availability of brain tissue from which BDNF was isolated. Both NGF and BDNF
promote the survival of distinct neuronal populations in vivo and are related in 
their primary structure, suggesting that they are members of a gene family.
Although there is little doubt about the existence of other such proteins, their 
low abundance has rendered their identification and characterization difficult.
Taking advantage of sequence identities between NGF and BDNF, we have now
identified a third member of this family, which we name neurotrophin-3. Both the 
tissue distribution of the messenger RNA and the neuronal specificity of this
secretory protein differ from those of NGF and BDNF. Alignment of the sequences
of the three proteins reveals a remarkable number of amino acid identities,
including all cysteine residues. This alignment also delineates four variable
domains, each of 7-11 amino acids, indicating structural elements presumably
involved in the neuronal specificity of these proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/344339a0 
PMID: 2314473  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Nature. 1990 Mar 22;344(6264):309-13.

Developmental regulation of human fetal-to-adult globin gene switching in
transgenic mice.

Enver T(1), Raich N, Ebens AJ, Papayannopoulou T, Costantini F,
Stamatoyannopoulos G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle 98195.

Transgenic mice containing a human fetal (gamma-) or adult (beta-) globin gene
linked to the beta-globin gene locus activation region (LAR) express the gene
throughout development. By contrast, transgenic mice containing LAR linked to
both a fetal and an adult globin gene display the normal developmental switch
from fetal to adult gene expression. This suggests that the human fetal-to-adult 
globin gene switch is controlled through a mutually exclusive interaction between
LAR and either the gamma- or beta-globin gene, resulting in the expression of
only one gene at any given moment.

DOI: 10.1038/344309a0 
PMID: 2314472  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Nature. 1990 Mar 22;344(6264):352-4.

Disruption of the actin cytoskeleton in yeast capping protein mutants.

Amatruda JF(1), Cannon JF, Tatchell K, Hug C, Cooper JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63110.

Capping protein controls the addition of actin subunits to the barbed end of
actin filaments and nucleates actin polymerization in vitro. Capping protein has 
been identified in all eukaryotic cells examined so far; it is a heterodimer with
subunits of relative molecular masses 32,000-36,000 (alpha-subunit) and
28,000-32,000 (beta-subunit). In skeletal muscle, capping protein (CapZ) probably
binds the barbed ends of actin filaments at the Z line. The in vivo role of this 
protein in non-muscle cells is not known. We report here the characterization of 
CAP2, the single gene encoding the beta-subunit of capping protein in
Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Yeast cells in which the CAP2 gene was disrupted by an 
insertion or a deletion had an abnormal actin distribution, including the loss of
actin cables. The mutant cells were round and large, with a heterogeneous size
distribution, and, although viable, grew more slowly than congenic wild-type
cells. Chitin, a cell wall component restricted to the mother-bud junction in
wild-type budding yeast, was found on the entire mother cell surface in the
mutants. The phenotype of CAP2 disruption resembled that of temperature-sensitive
mutations in the yeast actin gene ACT1, indicating that capping protein regulates
actin-filament distribution in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/344352a0 
PMID: 2179733  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Nature. 1990 Mar 22;344(6264):348-51.

Enhanced myogenesis in NCAM-transfected mouse myoblasts.

Dickson G(1), Peck D, Moore SE, Barton CH, Walsh FS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Pathology, United Medical School, Guy's Hospital,
London, UK.

The fusion of mononucleate precursor myoblasts to form the multinucleated
skeletal muscle fibre is proceeded by a series of complex cell-cell interactions 
but the cell-surface molecules involved in these events have not been
characterized. During myogenesis in vivo and in vitro, expression of the neural
cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) undergoes an isoform transition that precisely
correlates with terminal myoblast differentiation and myotube formation. Altered 
processing of RNA results in the replacement of the transmembrane NCAM (relative 
molecular mass, 145,000 (145K) in proliferating myoblasts by a predominant 125K
NCAM form linked to glycosyl phosphatidylinositol in myotubes. We now report that
mouse myoblasts transfected to constitutively express the human muscle-specific
125K glycosylphosphatidylinositol-linked NCAM isoform more readily fuse to form
myotubes. This suggests that NCAM plays a part in myoblast fusion and that the
isoform switch may promote this function.

DOI: 10.1038/344348a0 
PMID: 2179732  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Nature. 1990 Mar 22;344(6264):360-2.

Progesterone receptor stimulates transcription of mouse mammary tumour virus in a
cell-free system.

Kalff M(1), Gross B, Beato M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Molekularbiologie und Tumorforschung, Marburg, FRG.

In higher eukaryotes, steroid receptors are general modulators of gene activity
which bind to DNA hormone response elements (HREs) in the vicinity of regulated
promoters. Analysis of mutant and chimaeric receptor proteins in gene transfer
experiments has identified the domains responsible for hormone binding,
interaction with the HREs and transactivation, but the transactivating function
of hormone receptors has proved difficult to reproduce in cell-free assays. Here 
we describe a crude in vitro system in which transcription from the mouse mammary
tumour virus (MMTV) promoter is increased up to 10-fold by native progesterone
receptor from rabbit uterus. The stimulatory effect must depend on receptor
binding to the MMTV-HRE as it is abolished by deletion or mutation of the HRE and
by HRE-oligonucleotide competition. The nuclear factor-I binding site immediately
downstream of the HRE, however, does not appear to be essential to progesterone
receptor-mediated in vitro stimulation of MMTV transcription. The transactivation
activity of the progesterone receptor depends on binding of a functional ligand
and so this assay should be useful for dissection of the mechanism of
transcription activation by steroid hormones.

DOI: 10.1038/344360a0 
PMID: 2156171  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Nature. 1990 Mar 22;344(6264):358-60.

Sequence-specific artificial photo-induced endonucleases based on triple
helix-forming oligonucleotides.

Perrouault L(1), Asseline U, Rivalle C, Thuong NT, Bisagni E, Giovannangeli C, Le
Doan T, Hélène C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Biophysique, Muséum National d'Histoire Naturelle, INSERM
U.201--CNRS UA.481, Paris, France.

Homopyrimidine oligonucleotides bind to homopurine-homopyrimidine sequences of
duplex DNA forming a local triple helix. This binding can be demonstrated either 
directly by a footprinting technique, gel assays, or indirectly by inducing
irreversible reactions in the target sequence, such as photocrosslinking or
cleavage. Binding occurs in the major groove with the homopyrimidine
oligonucleotide orientated parallel to the homopurine strand. Thymine and
protonated cytosine in the oligonucleotide form Hoogsteen-type hydrogen bonds
with A.T and G.C Watson-Crick base pairs, respectively. Here we report that an
11-residue homopyrimidine oligonucleotide covalently attached to an ellipticine
derivative by its 3' phosphate photo-induces cleavage of the two strands of a
target homopurine--homopyrimidine sequence. To our knowledge, this is the first
reported case of a sequence-specific artificial photoendonuclease. In addition we
show that a strong binding site for a free ellipticine derivative is induced at
the junction between the triplex and duplex structures on the 5' side of the
bound oligonucleotide. On irradiation, cleavage is observed on both strands of
DNA. This opens new possibilities for inducing irreversible reactions on DNA at
specific sites by the synergistic action of a triple helix-forming
oligonucleotide and an intercalating agent.

DOI: 10.1038/344358a0 
PMID: 2156170  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Nature. 1990 Mar 22;344(6264):345-8.

Porcine diacylglycerol kinase sequence has zinc finger and E-F hand motifs.

Sakane F(1), Yamada K, Kanoh H, Yokoyama C, Tanabe T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Sapporo Medical College, Japan.

Cell stimulation causes diacylglycerol kinase (DGK) to convert the second
messenger diacylglycerol into phosphatidate, thus initiating the resynthesis of
phosphatidylinositols and attenuating protein kinase C activity. Of the DGK
isoforms so far reported, only porcine DGK from lymphocytes has been
characterized in detail. Here we report the isolation and sequencing of
complementary DNA clones that together cover the entire region encoding porcine
DGK (relative molecular mass 80,000 (80K)). The deduced primary structure of this
DGK contains the putative ATP-binding sites, two cysteine-rich zinc finger-like
sequences similar to those found in protein kinase C, and two E-F hand motifs,
typical of Ca2(+)-binding proteins like calmodulin. Indeed, we find that the
activity of this DGK isoform is enhanced by micromolar concentrations of Ca2+ in 
the presence of deoxycholate or sphingosine. These properties of 80K DGK indicate
that its action is probably linked with both of the second messengers
diacylglycerol and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate.

DOI: 10.1038/344345a0 
PMID: 2156169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Nature. 1990 Mar 22;344(6264):355-7.

Homologous activators of ras in fission and budding yeast.

Hughes DA(1), Fukui Y, Yamamoto M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Science, University of Tokyo, Japan.

The ras proto-oncogene products are plasma membrane-bound, guanine
nucleotide-binding proteins implicated in signal transduction across the plasma
membrane. But the signal(s) that activates the ras pathway(s) is not known. In
the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the CDC25 gene product acts upstream 
of Ras proteins, but it has not been clear whether CDC25 function is unique to
the S. cerevisiae ras pathway. Here we report that the ste6 gene of fission yeast
Schizosaccharomyces pombe is a homologue of CDC25: the ste6 gene product and the 
CDC25 gene product have significant amino-acid similarity in their C-terminal
regions. Like the S. pombe ras1 gene, ste6 is essential for mating. Epistatic
interactions indicate that the ste6 gene functions upstream of ras1. We propose
that ste6 and CDC25 activate Ras protein through a common mechanism, perhaps by
promoting GDP-GTP exchange, even though it seems that the function of Ras protein
in budding yeast differs from that in fission yeast. Homologues of ste6 and CDC25
could regulate ras activity in other eukaryotic cells.

DOI: 10.1038/344355a0 
PMID: 2107403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Nature. 1990 Mar 22;344(6264):336-9.

Dual ion-channel regulation by cyclic GMP and cyclic GMP-dependent protein
kinase.

Light DB(1), Corbin JD, Stanton BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, New Hampshire.

Atrial natriuretic peptide, acting through its second messenger guanosine
3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cGMP), suppresses Na+ absorption across the renal
inner-medullary collecting duct and increases urinary Na+ excretion. Patch clamp 
studies show that cGMP reduces Na+ absorption by inhibiting an
amiloride-sensitive cation channel in the apical membrane. We have now examined, 
using the patch clamp technique, the molecular mechanisms of cGMP inhibition.
Cyclic GMP directly and specifically reduced the probability of a single channel 
being open (open probability, Po) by 39% (inhibition constant, Ki = 7.6 x 10(-7) 
M) by a phosphorylation-independent mechanism. Cyclic GMP also inhibited the
channel by activating cGMP-dependent protein kinase (cGMP-kinase). Exogenous
cGMP-kinase completely inhibited the channel by a phosphorylation-dependent
mechanism. Activation of a pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein by GTP-gamma-S
blocked cGMP-kinase inhibition of the channel. By contrast, cGMP-kinase
inhibition of Po was completely reversed by GTP-gamma-S. Taken together with the 
results of a previous study showing that a G protein activates the cation
channel, these data indicate that cGMP-kinase and a G protein sequentially
regulate the cation channel. Our results show that atrial natriuretic peptide,
acting through cGMP, inhibits Na+ absorption across the inner-medullary
collecting duct by a dual mechanism, and that cGMP-kinase inhibits the channel by
a pathway involving a G protein.

DOI: 10.1038/344336a0 
PMID: 1690355  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Nature. 1990 Mar 15;344(6263):268-70.

Relative helix-forming tendencies of nonpolar amino acids.

Padmanabhan S(1), Marqusee S, Ridgeway T, Laue TM, Baldwin RL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Stanford University, California 94305-5307.

An important issue in understanding the relationship between protein sequence and
structure is the degree to which different amino acids favour the formation of
particular types of secondary structure. Estimates of the 'helix-forming
tendency' of amino acids have been made based on 'host-guest' experiments, in
which copolymers are made of the amino acid of interest (the 'guest') and a host 
residue (typically hydroxypropyl- or hydroxybutyl-L-glutamine). Recently,
however, short alanine-based peptides were found to form stable monomeric helices
in water, contrary to the result predicted from host-guest experiments. We have
now measured the helix-forming tendency of five different nonpolar amino acids
(Ala, Ile, Leu, Phe, Val) by substituting each in turn for alanine in a
17-residue alanine-based peptide and determining the extent of alpha-helix
formation. Our results differ from those of host-guest experiments both in the
degree of variation in helix-forming tendency of different amino acids, and in
the rank order of the helix-forming tendency. We conclude that the helix-forming 
tendency of a particular amino acid depends on the sequence context in which it
occurs; and the restriction of side-chain rotamer conformations is important in
determining the helix-forming tendency.

DOI: 10.1038/344268a0 
PMID: 2314462  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Nature. 1990 Mar 15;344(6263):262-5.

Evolutionary transfer of the chloroplast tufA gene to the nucleus.

Baldauf SL(1), Palmer JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48109.

Evolutionary gene transfer is a basic corollary of the now widely accepted
endosymbiotic theory, which proposes that mitochondria and chloroplasts
originated from once free-living eubacteria. The small organellar chromosomes are
remnants of larger bacterial genomes, with most endosymbiont genes having been
either transferred to the nucleus soon after endosymbiosis or lost entirely, with
some being functionally replaced by pre-existing nuclear genes. Several lines of 
evidence indicate that relocation of some organelle genes could have been more
recent. These include the abundance of non-functional organelle sequences of
recent origin in nuclear DNA, successful artificial transfer of functional
organelle genes to the nucleus, and several examples of recently lost organelle
genes, although none of these is known to have been replaced by a nuclear
homologue that is clearly of organellar ancestry. We present gene sequence and
molecular phylogenetic evidence for the transfer of the chloroplast tufA gene to 
the nucleus in the green algal ancestor of land plants.

DOI: 10.1038/344262a0 
PMID: 2314461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Nature. 1990 Mar 15;344(6263):242-5.

Regulation and deregulation of cardiac Na(+)-Ca2+ exchange in giant excised
sarcolemmal membrane patches.

Hilgemann DW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
Dallas 75235.

A plasmalemmal Na(+)-Ca2+ exchange mechanism is an important electrogenic
determinant of contractility in cardiac cells. As in other cell types, calcium
influx by Na(+)-Ca2+ exchange is secondarily activated by cytoplasmic calcium and
probably ATP, but these modulatory mechanisms are either absent or altered in
isolated cardiac sarcolemmal vesicles. Involvement of a calcium-dependent protein
kinase in exchange regulation has been suggested but not verified. Here I
describe measurements of outward Na(+)-Ca2+ exchange current, corresponding to
calcium influx, in giant excised sarcolemmal patches from guinea pig myocytes.
The exchange current is stimulated by both calcium and Mg-ATP from the
cytoplasmic face, evidently through separate mechanisms. Activation by
cytoplasmic calcium takes place within seconds, is reversible, and does not
require ATP. Stimulation by Mg-ATP reverses only slowly over greater than 10 min,
or not at all. Unexpectedly, a substantial decrease in exchange current occurs
during activation by cytoplasmic sodium, which seems to reflect an inactivation
process rather than ion concentration changes or a 'first pass' exchange cycle.
This apparent inactivation, and the modulations by cytoplasmic calcium and
Mg-ATP, are all abolished by brief treatment of the cytoplasmic surface with
chymotrypsin, leaving the exchanger in a maintained state of high activity.
Therefore, limited proteolysis deregulates Na(+)-Ca2+ exchange and could
contribute to the loss of secondary regulation of the exchange in isolated
sarcolemmal vesicles.

DOI: 10.1038/344242a0 
PMID: 2314460  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Nature. 1990 Mar 15;344(6263):240-2.

Muscarinic modulation of a transient K+ conductance in rat neostriatal neurons.

Akins PT(1), Surmeier DJ, Kitai ST.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, College of Medicine, University of
Tennessee, Memphis 38163.

Neurons of the neostriatum are richly innervated by cholinergic neurons of
intrinsic origin. Both pre- and post-synaptic muscarinic receptors mediate the
effects of acetylcholine (ACh). Activation of these receptors is functionally
significant, particularly in Parkinson's disease. Current-clamp studies indicate 
that muscarinic receptors serve to decrease the responsiveness of neostriatal
neurons to excitatory inputs. Here we present evidence that this effect is
caused, in part, by the muscarinic modulation of the A-current, a transient
outward potassium current. The voltage dependence of this current suggests that
normally it enhances spike repolarization and slows discharge rate, but does not 
affect 'synaptic integration'. We find that under the influence of muscarinic
agonists, the voltage dependence of A-current activation and inactivation is
shifted towards more negative membrane potentials and the peak conductance is
increased. Therefore, at relatively hyperpolarized resting potentials, ACh
transiently alters the functional role of the A-current, allowing it to suppress 
excitatory inputs and further slow the discharge rate. But at relatively
depolarized resting potentials, ACh increases excitability by removing the
A-current through inactivation.

DOI: 10.1038/344240a0 
PMID: 2314459  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Nature. 1990 Mar 15;344(6263):251-3.

Acute leukaemia in bcr/abl transgenic mice.

Heisterkamp N(1), Jenster G, ten Hoeve J, Zovich D, Pattengale PK, Groffen J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Children's Hospital, Los Angeles, California 90027.

The Philadelphia chromosome, widely implicated in human leukaemia, is the result 
of a reciprocal translocation t(9;22) (q34;q11) in which the abl oncogene located
at 9q34 is translocated to chromosome 22q11, where it is fused head-to-tail with 
5' exons of the bcr gene. In acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, some patients have a 
breakpoint within the major breakpoint cluster region of the bcr gene, whereas
others have the break within its first intron. This second type of translocation 
results in the transcription of a 7.0-kilobase chimaeric bcr/abl messenger RNA
translated into a bcr/abl fusion protein, p190, which has an abnormal tyrosine
kinase activity and is strongly autophosphorylated in vitro. We have generated
mice transgenic for a bcr/abl p190 DNA construct and find that progeny are either
moribund with, or die of acute leukaemia (myeloid or lymphoid) 10-58 days after
birth. This finding is evidence for a causal relationship between the
Philadelphia chromosome and human leukaemia.

DOI: 10.1038/344251a0 
PMID: 2179728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


481. Nature. 1990 Mar 15;344(6263):260-2.

Functional heterogeneity of mammalian TATA-box sequences revealed by interaction 
with a cell-specific enhancer.

Wefald FC(1), Devlin BH, Williams RS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina
27710.

A regulatory element upstream of the human myoglobin gene functions as a
muscle-specific enhancer (MSE) in conjunction with core promoter elements of the 
myoglobin gene, but not in combination with the simian virus 40 (SV40) early
promoter. These two promoters differ in the sequences of their 'TATA boxes': for 
the myoglobin gene, the sequence is TATAAAA, whereas for SV40, the sequence is
TATTTAT. We have now tested the hypothesis that this sequence difference is
responsible for the differential response of the promoters to the MSE. We found
that when the TATA box sequence of the myoglobin promoter was changed to that of 
the SV40 promoter, responsiveness to the MSE was abolished; conversely, when the 
SV40 TATA box sequence was changed to that of the myoglobin promoter, the
promoter became responsive to the MSE. We conclude that mammalian TATA-box
elements are functionally heterogeneous, and suggest that this heterogeneity
reflects differential interactions with distinctive TATA box-binding factors,
only some of which can act cooperatively with MSE-binding proteins to generate an
active transcriptional complex.

DOI: 10.1038/344260a0 
PMID: 2156167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Nature. 1990 Mar 15;344(6263):257-9.

Interference with the assembly of a virus-host transcription complex by peptide
competition.

Haigh A(1), Greaves R, O'Hare P.

Author information: 
(1)Marie Curie Research Institute, Oxted, Surrey, UK.

Induction of transcription of the immediate-early (IE) genes of herpes simplex
virus (HSV) involves the assembly of a DNA-binding complex containing the
cellular transcription factor Oct-1 and the virus regulatory protein Vmw65
(VP16). Complex assembly can be observed using deletion variants of Vmw65 which
lack the acidic C-terminal activation domain and are therefore defective for IE
transactivation. Similar variants of Vmw65 interfere with IE activation by the
normal protein, and with HSV replication. It has therefore been suggested that
dominant interfering products of viruses such as HSV and HIV could be used in a
form of intracellular immunization against virus infection. Here we report that a
small peptide overlapping a region of Vmw65 which is critical for complex
assembly specifically inhibits assembly of the complex but has no observed effect
on the DNA-binding activity of the cellular factor alone. Selective interference 
with the assembly of transcription complexes by short peptides corresponding to
functionally critical regions of virus regulatory proteins may be more feasible
than the use of defective polypeptides as an antiviral strategy based on
competitive interference.

DOI: 10.1038/344257a0 
PMID: 2156166  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Nature. 1990 Mar 15;344(6263):245-7.

Requirement of tumour necrosis factor for development of silica-induced pulmonary
fibrosis.

Piguet PF(1), Collart MA, Grau GE, Sappino AP, Vassalli P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Geneva, Switzerland.

The deposition of silica particles in the lung of man or experimental animals
leads to silicosis, a disease of progressive respiratory failure caused by a
fibrotic reaction. It has long been suspected that the phagocytosis of silica by 
pulmonary macrophages induces the secretion of fibrogenic factors. Several
potentially fibrogenic cytokines released by macrophages have been identified,
including interleukin-1 (IL-1), tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF),
platelet-derived growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor and transforming
growth factor-beta (TGF-beta). Here we show that TNF plays an important part in
silica-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice in that (1) a single instillation of
silica leads to a marked increase in the level of lung TNF messenger RNA which
lasts for greater than 70 days, while there are no obvious changes in the amounts
of IL-1 alpha or TGF-beta mRNAs; and (2) silica-induced collagen deposition is
almost completely prevented by anti-TNF antibody, but is significantly increased 
by continuous infusion of mouse recombinant TNF.

DOI: 10.1038/344245a0 
PMID: 2156165  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Nature. 1990 Mar 15;344(6263):265-8.

Peptide mimetics of an actin-binding site on myosin span two functional domains
on actin.

Keane AM(1), Trayer IP, Levine BA, Zeugner C, Ruegg JC.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biochemistry, University of Birmingham, UK.

The sites on the myosin heavy chain that interact with actin and are responsible 
for force generation are ill-defined: crosslinking and experiments with isolated 
domains of the myosin head implicate regions in both the 50K and 20K (molecular
weights in thousands) domains of the myosin head (subfragment 1, S1) in this
process. We have synthesized peptides from the sequence around the fast-reacting 
SH1 thiol residue in the 20K domain of S1 in order to delineate precisely an
actin-binding site. We used a combination of 1H-NMR and enzyme inhibition assay
and also assessed the effects of peptides on skinned rabbit psoas muscle fibres
to show that the region of amino acids 690-725 contains an actin-binding site.
Peptides from this region bind to actin, act as mixed inhibitors of the
actin-stimulated S1 Mg2(+)-ATPase, and influence the contractile force developed 
in skinned fibres, whereas peptides flanking this sequence are without effect in 
our test systems. Remarkably, peptides from the N-terminal half of this segment
690-725 increase force development in skinned fibres at submaximal activating
concentrations of Ca2+, that is, they behave as calcium-sensitizers; C-terminal
peptides, however, inhibit force development without effecting sensitivity to
calcium. These different responses indicate that this region is probably binding 
at two functionally distinct sites on actin.

DOI: 10.1038/344265a0 
PMID: 2138249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Nature. 1990 Mar 15;344(6263):219-23.

Dependence of position-effect variegation in Drosophila on dose of a gene
encoding an unusual zinc-finger protein.

Reuter G(1), Giarre M, Farah J, Gausz J, Spierer A, Spierer P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Martin Luther University, Halle, DDR.

Position-effect variegation is the inactivation in some cells of a gene
translocated next to heterochromatin, the region of the chromosome that is
permanently condensed. The number of copies of the Drosophila gene Suvar(3)7 is a
dose-limiting factor in this phenomenon, and seems from its sequence that it
encodes a protein with five widely spaced zinc-fingers. This novel arrangement of
zinc-fingers could help in packaging the chromatin fibre into heterochromatin,
and also reflect a novel method of controlling the expression from DNA domains.

DOI: 10.1038/344219a0 
PMID: 2107402  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Nature. 1990 Mar 15;344(6263):238-40.

Influence of seasonal migration on geographic distribution of mitochondrial DNA
haplotypes in humpback whales.

Baker CS(1), Palumbi SR, Lambertsen RH, Weinrich MT, Calambokidis J, O'Brien SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Viral Carcinogenesis, National Cancer Institute, Frederick,
Maryland 21701-1013.

Humpback whales (Megaptera novaeangliae) migrate nearly 10,000 km each year
between summer feeding grounds in temperate or near-polar waters and winter
breeding grounds in shallow tropical waters. Observations of marked individuals
suggest that major oceanic populations of humpback whales are divided into a
number of distinct seasonal subpopulations which are not separated by obvious
geographic barriers. To test whether these observed patterns of distribution and 
migration are reflected in the genetic structure of populations, we looked for
variation in the mitochondrial DNA of 84 individual humpback whales on different 
feeding and wintering grounds of the North Pacific and western North Atlantic
oceans. On the basis of restriction-fragment analysis, we now report a marked
segregation of mitochondrial DNA haplotypes among subpopulations as well as
between the two oceans. We interpret this segregation to be the consequence of
maternally directed fidelity to migratory destinations.

DOI: 10.1038/344238a0 
PMID: 1969116  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Nature. 1990 Mar 15;344(6263):254-7.

Induction of endothelial cell expression of granulocyte and macrophage
colony-stimulating factors by modified low-density lipoproteins.

Rajavashisth TB(1), Andalibi A, Territo MC, Berliner JA, Navab M, Fogelman AM,
Lusis AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, UCLA 90024.

Oxidized lipoproteins have been identified in atherosclerotic plaques and in
early lesions in humans as well as in animals. There is accumulating evidence
that such oxidized lipoproteins have an important role in atherosclerosis.
Treatment of endothelial cells with altered lipoproteins stimulates monocyte
binding as well as the production of chemotactic factors for monocytes. Both
these findings could be relevant to the accumulation of monocytes-macrophages in 
the arterial wall during the early stages of lesion development. We now report
that treatment of endothelial cells (EC) with modified low-density lipoproteins
obtained by mild iron oxidation or by prolonged storage, results in a rapid and
large induction of the expression of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating
factor (GM-CSF), macrophage CSF (M-CSF) and granulocyte CSF (G-CSF). These growth
factors affect the differentiation, survival, proliferation, migration and
metabolism of macrophages/granulocytes, and G-CSF and GM-CSF also affect the
migration and proliferation of EC. Because EC and macrophages are important in
the development of atherosclerosis, the expression of the CSFs by these cells
could contribute to the disease.

DOI: 10.1038/344254a0 
PMID: 1690354  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Nature. 1990 Mar 15;344(6263):247-51.

Novel post-translational regulation of TCR expression in CD4+CD8+ thymocytes
influenced by CD4.

Bonifacino JS(1), McCarthy SA, Maguire JE, Nakayama T, Singer DS, Klausner RD,
Singer A.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology and Metabolism Branch, National Institute of Child Health and
Human Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

Expression of the multicomponent T-cell antigen receptor (TCR) complex on the
surface of thymocytes is developmentally controlled. Most immature CD4-CD8-
'double negative' and CD4+CD8+ 'double positive' thymocytes express either no or 
few TCR on their surface, and maturation to CD4+CD8- or CD4-CD8+ 'single
positive' thymocytes is accompanied by a dramatic increase in the number of
surface TCR complexes. Although the initial appearance of TCR during
differentiation results from rearrangement and initiation of transcription of TCR
genes in the thymus, the mechanisms regulating the quantitative changes in TCR
expression during intrathymic differentiation are unknown. Surface TCR levels in 
T-hybridoma cells can be quantitatively regulated by a series of
post-translational processes, including sorting to alternative intracellular
compartments and degradation, which ensure that only fully and correctly
assembled receptor complexes are efficiently transported to the cell surface.
Quantitative increases in TCR expression on the surface of CD4+CD8+ thymocytes
occur in vivo in response to anti-CD4 antibody treatment. Here we present
evidence that immature CD4+CD8+ thymocytes normally retain and degrade in the
endoplasmic reticulum greater than 90% of some endogenously synthesized TCR
chains, and that the increased surface TCR expression on immature CD4+CD8+
thymocytes induced by anti-CD4 is due to an increase in the escape of newly
synthesized receptor chains from the endoplasmic reticulum, and is not due to
increases in RNA levels, translation, or assembly. Post-translational mechanisms 
therefore control the levels of TCR complexes on CD4+CD8+ thymocytes, and these
mechanisms can be modulated by signalling through CD4 surface molecules.

DOI: 10.1038/344247a0 
PMID: 1690353  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Nature. 1990 Mar 8;344(6262):173-5.

New data on excisions of Mu from E. coli MCS2 cast doubt on directed mutation
hypothesis.

Mittler JE(1), Lenski RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California,
Irvine 92717.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 May 17;345(6272):213.

According to the directed mutation hypothesis, certain mutations in bacteria
occur more frequently in environments in which the resulting phenotype is
selectively favoured than in non-selective environments. This hypothesis
therefore challenges the fundamental tenet that mutations occur spontaneously,
irrespective of effects on the organism's fitness. One purported case of directed
mutation is the excision of a Mu sequence from Escherichia coli strain MCS2 in
minimal lactose-arabinose medium. Here, we show that this case can be more simply
explained by an accelerated rate of excision mutation in response to non-specific
physiological stresses of starvation and by slight growth of MCS2 on minimal
lactose-arabinose medium.

DOI: 10.1038/344173a0 
PMID: 2407962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Nature. 1990 Mar 8;344(6262):175-7.

Dependence of the torsional rigidity of DNA on base composition.

Fujimoto BS(1), Schurr JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Washington, Seattle 98195.

The Escherichia coli phage 434 repressor binds as a dimer to the operator of the 
DNA helix. Although the centre of the operator is not in contact with protein,
the repressor binding affinity can be reduced at least 50-fold by changing the
sequence there: operators with A.T base pairs near their centre bind the
repressor more strongly than do operators with G.C base pairs at the same
positions. To explain these observations, it has been proposed that the base
composition at the centre of the operator affects the affinity of the operator
for repressor by altering the ease with which operator DNA can undergo the
torsional deformation necessary for complex formation. In this model, the
variation in binding affinity would require the torsion constant to have specific
values and to change in a sequence-dependent manner. We have now measured torsion
constants for DNAs with widely different base compositions. Our results indicate 
that the torsion constants depend only slightly on the overall composition, and
firmly delimit the range of values for each. Even the upper-limit values are much
too small to account for the observed changes in affinity of the 434 repressor.
These results rule out simple models that rely on substantial generic differences
in torsion constant between A.T-rich sequences and G.C-rich sequences, although
they do not rule out the possibility of particular sequences having abnormal
torsion constants.

DOI: 10.1038/344175a0 
PMID: 2308636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Nature. 1990 Mar 8;344(6262):170-3.

Gene targeting in normal and amplified cell lines.

Zheng H(1), Wilson JH.

Author information: 
(1)Verna and Marrs McLean Department of Biochemistry, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, Texas 77030.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Mar 8;344(6262):105.

Targeted recombination in mammalian cells is rare compared with non-homologous
integration. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae the reverse is true. Differences in
targeting efficiency could arise because a target of unique DNA is 200 times more
dilute in mammalian genomes than it is in yeast. We tested this possibility by
measuring gene targeting in normal CHO cells with two copies of the dihydrofolate
reductase (DHFR) gene and in amplified CHOC 400 cells, which carry 800 copies. If
the concentration of the target gene is critical, amplified cells should show an 
enhanced frequency of targeted recombination relative to non-homologous
integration. Using a positive/negative selection protocol, we demonstrated that
the efficiency of targeting into DHFR genes is indistinguishable in normal and
amplified CHO cells. As targeting does not depend on the number of targets, the
search for homology is not a rate-limiting step in the mammalian pathway of gene 
targeting. Thus, the difference in genome size is not the basis for the different
outcomes of targeting experiments in S. cerevisiae and mammals.

DOI: 10.1038/344170a0 
PMID: 2308635  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Nature. 1990 Mar 8;344(6262):163-5.

Self-tolerance to transgenic gamma delta T cells by intrathymic inactivation.

Bonneville M(1), Ishida I, Itohara S, Verbeek S, Berns A, Kanagawa O, Haas W,
Tonegawa S.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Center for Cancer Research, Cambridge,
Massachusetts.

During their intrathymic differentiation, T lymphocytes expressing alpha beta
T-cell receptors (TCR) are negatively and positively selected. This selection
contributes to the establishment of self-tolerance and ensures that mature CD4+
and CD8+ cell populations are restricted by the self major histocompatibility
complex. Little is known, however, about gamma delta T-cell development. To
investigate whether selection operates in the establishment of the gamma delta
T-cell class, we have generated transgenic mice using gamma- and delta-transgenes
encoding a TCR that is specific for a product of a gene in the TL-region of the
TLb haplotype. Similar numbers of thymocytes expressing the transgenic TCR were
generated in mice of TLb and TLd haplotypes. But gamma delta thymocytes from TLb 
and TLd transgenic mice differed in cell size, TCR density and in their capacity 
to respond to TLb stimulator cells or interleukin-2 (IL-2). In contrast to gamma 
delta T cells from TLd transgenic mice, gamma delta T cells from TLb transgenic
mice did not produce IL-2 and did not proliferate in response to TLb stimulator
cells, but they did proliferate in the presence of exogenous IL-2. These results 
indicate that functional inactivation of self-antigen-specific T cells could
contribute to the establishment of self-tolerance to thymic determinants.

DOI: 10.1038/344163a0 
PMID: 2308634  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Nature. 1990 Mar 8;344(6262):155-8.

Neuropeptide fusion of two motor-pattern generator circuits.

Dickinson PS(1), Mecsas C, Marder E.

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Maine.

Animals make many different movements as circumstances dictate. These movements
often involve the coordination of several neural networks, the output of which
can be changed by modulatory substances. Here we report that the neuropeptide red
pigment concentrating hormone modulates the interactions between two rhythmic
pattern-generating networks in the lobster stomatogastric nervous system. Red
pigment concentrating hormone markedly enhances the amplitude of synaptic
interactions between elements of two pattern-generating networks--the cardiac sac
and the gastric mill. Consequently, two networks operating under some
circumstances virtually independently can be fused into one functional unit
operating differently from either of the two original networks. These results
show how a neuropeptide can alter the functional configuration of a neural
network so that widely disparate outputs can be produced by the same neurons.

DOI: 10.1038/344155a0 
PMID: 2308633  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Nature. 1990 Mar 8;344(6262):153-5.

Transparency and coherence in human motion perception.

Stoner GR(1), Albright TD, Ramachandran VS.

Author information: 
(1)Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla, California 92037.

When confronted with moving images, the visual system often must decide whether
the motion signals arise from a single object or from multiple objects. A special
case of this problem arises when two independently moving gratings are
superimposed. The gratings tend to cohere and move unambiguously in a single
direction (pattern motion) instead of moving independently (component motion).
Here we report that the tendency to see pattern motion depends very strongly on
the luminance of the intersections (that is, to regions where the gratings
overlap) relative to that of the gratings in a way that closely parallels the
physics of transparency. When the luminance of these regions is chosen
appropriately, pattern motion is destroyed and replaced by the appearance of two 
transparent gratings moving independently. The observations imply that motion
detecting mechanisms in the visual system must have access to tacit 'knowledge'
of the physics of transparency and that this knowledge can be used to segment the
scene into different objects. The same knowledge could, in principle, be used to 
avoid confusing shadows with real object boundaries.

DOI: 10.1038/344153a0 
PMID: 2308632  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Nature. 1990 Mar 8;344(6262):165-8.

A second B cell-specific enhancer 3' of the immunoglobulin heavy-chain locus.

Pettersson S(1), Cook GP, Brüggemann M, Williams GT, Neuberger MS.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, UK.

The expression of immunoglobulin heavy-chain (IgH) genes is generally thought to 
be regulated by the combination of the VH promoter with the enhancer element
which is located in the JH-CH intron. This is probably an oversimplification:
there are cell lines that transcribe IgH genes despite the deletion of the
intron-enhancer. These findings could imply that other enhancer element(s) exist 
in the IgH locus. Here we show that a strong B-cell-specific enhancer is indeed
located at the 3'-end of the rat IgH locus, 25 kilobases downstream of C alpha.
This enhancer should be retained downstream of all rearranged IgH genes,
regardless of the VH or CH segment used. Taken together with analogous findings
for the mouse kappa locus, the results prompt a re-evaluation of the mechanism of
regulation of immunoglobulin gene transcription. Furthermore, unlike the
intron-enhancer, the IgH 3' enhancer would become linked to a c-myc that
rearranges into an IgH switch region. The IgH 3' enhancer could therefore play a 
part in the activation of the translocated c-myc genes in rat immunocytomas,
mouse plasmacytomas and Burkitt lymphomas.

DOI: 10.1038/344165a0 
PMID: 2106628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Nature. 1990 Mar 8;344(6262):160-2.

Impairment of endothelium-dependent arterial relaxation by lysolecithin in
modified low-density lipoproteins.

Kugiyama K(1), Kerns SA, Morrisett JD, Roberts R, Henry PD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030.

Atherosclerosis in animals and humans is associated with an unresponsiveness of
arteries and arterioles to endothelium-dependent vasodilators--agents acting on
smooth muscle indirectly by stimulating the release from endothelial cells of a
vasodilator principle (endothelium-derived relaxing factor). Altered vasomotor
regulation in atherosclerosis could partly reflect an injurious action of
abnormal lipoproteins on endothelium. Recently, 'cell-modified' or 'oxidized'
low-density lipoprotein (EC-LDL) has received increasing attention because of its
potential cytotoxic and atherogenic properties. We report here that arteries
exposed to EC-LDL in vitro show an endothelium-dependent vasoregulatory
impairment closely resembling that of atherosclerotic arteries. Our results
indicate that transfer of lysolecithin from EC-LDL to endothelial membranes
produces a selective unresponsiveness to receptor-regulated endothelium-dependent
vasodilators.

DOI: 10.1038/344160a0 
PMID: 2106627  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Nature. 1990 Mar 8;344(6262):158-60.

Segmental and developmental regulation of a presumptive T-cell oncogene in the
central nervous system.

Greenberg JM(1), Boehm T, Sofroniew MV, Keynes RJ, Barton SC, Norris ML, Surani
MA, Spillantini MG, Rabbitts TH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, UK.

Although most proto-oncogenes such as c-myc are involved in cell proliferation,
being expressed in a wide range of tissues as well as in progenitors of
transformed cells, others may normally function in cellular differentiation. We
now report on a gene on human chromosome 11, at the junction of the T-cell
tumour-associated chromosomal translocation t(11; 14) (p15; q11) and known as the
11p15 gene or Ttg, which is believed to be involved in the pathogenesis of the
tumour. It has two transcriptional promoters (both retained by the translocated
allele) and is expressed in tumour cells with neuro-endocrine properties,
suggesting that normal expression may occur in nerve cells. Using fusion
constructs of one 11p15 promoter and lacZ in transgenic mice, we found that the
gene is expressed in a segment-specific manner in rhombomeres of the developing
mouse hind-brain. During subsequent development, the gene is more widely
expressed, again in precisely defined regional patterns, but in post-mitotic
neurons confined to the central nervous system. Thus, this presumptive T-cell
oncogene is both developmentally regulated and segmentally restricted in a tissue
different from that in which the original tumour arose.

DOI: 10.1038/344158a0 
PMID: 2106626  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Nature. 1990 Mar 8;344(6262):150-3.

Host-parasitoid associations in patchy environments.

Pacala SW(1), Hassell MP, May RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Connecticut,
Storrs 06268.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Mar 8;344(6262):111-2.

Studies of insect host-parasitoid interactions have contributed much to the
consensus that spatial patchiness is important in the regulation of natural
populations. A variety of theoretical models predict that host and parasitoid
populations, although unstable in the absence of environmental heterogeneity, may
persist at roughly steady overall densities in a patchy environment owing to
variation in levels of parasitism from patch to patch. Observed patterns of
parasitism, however, have a variety of forms (with variation in attack rates
among patches depending directly or indirectly on host density, or showing
variation uncorrelated with host density). There is some confusion about the
dynamical consequences of these different forms. Here we first show how the
dynamical effects of all these forms of environmental heterogeneity can be
assessed by a common criterion. This 'CV2 greater than 1 rule' states that the
overall population densities will remain roughly steady from generation to
generation if the coefficient of variation squared (CV2) of the density of
searching parasitoids in the vicinity of each host exceeds approximately unity.
By partitioning CV2 into components, we show that both direct and inverse
patterns of dependence on host density, and density-independent patterns, all
contribute to population regulation in the same way. Second, we show how a
maximum-likelihood method can be applied to the kind of field data that are
usually available (that is, percentage parasitism versus local host density) to
estimate the components of CV2. This analysis indicates that heterogeneity is
large enough to stabilize dynamics in 9 of 34 published studies, and that
density-independent heterogeneity is the main factor in most cases.

DOI: 10.1038/344150a0 
PMID: 2103109  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Nature. 1990 Mar 8;344(6262):168-70.

A single origin of phenylketonuria in Yemenite Jews.

Avigad S(1), Cohen BE, Bauer S, Schwartz G, Frydman M, Woo SL, Niny Y, Shiloh Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Genetics, Sackler School of Medicine, Tel Aviv University,
Israel.

Phenylketonuria (PKU) is a metabolic disease caused by recessive mutations of the
gene encoding the hepatic enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH). The incidence
of PKU varies widely across different geographic areas, and is highest (about 1
in 5,000 live births) in Ireland and western Scotland, and among Yemenite Jews. A
limited number of point mutations account for most of the PKU cases in the
European population. Here we report that a single molecular defect--a deletion
spanning the third exon of the PAH gene--is responsible for all the PKU cases
among the Yemenite Jews. Examination of a random sample of Yemenite Jews using a 
molecular probe that detects the carriers of this deletion indicated a high
frequency of the defective gene in this community. Although the deleted PAH gene 
was traced to 25 different locations throughout Yemen, family histories and
official documents of the Yemenite Jewish community showed that the common
ancestor of all the carriers of this genetic defect lived in San'a, the capital
of Yemen, before the eighteenth century.

DOI: 10.1038/344168a0 
PMID: 1968617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Nature. 1990 Mar 8;344(6262):126-32.

In vivo alteration of telomere sequences and senescence caused by mutated
Tetrahymena telomerase RNAs.

Yu GL(1), Bradley JD, Attardi LD, Blackburn EH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Mar 8;344(6262):108-9.

Mutating the CAACCCCAA sequence in the RNA component of telomerase causes the
synthesis in vivo of new telomere sequences corresponding to the mutated RNA
sequence, demonstrating that the telomerase contains the template for telomere
synthesis. These mutations also lead to nuclear and cell division defects, and
senescence, establishing an essential role for telomerase in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/344126a0 
PMID: 1689810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):58-60.

Rapid physiological adjustment of roots to localized soil enrichment.

Jackson RB, Manwaring JH, Caldwell MM.

SOIL microsites rich in available nutrients are an important source of mineral
nutrients for plants in many environments(1-5). Patchiness in nutrient
availability below ground is analogous to resource availability in canopy gaps
above ground(6). Although the physiological changes occurring in leaves exposed
to sun and shade in canopy gaps are well known(7-9), we do not know any studies
that show similar physiological changes in roots in enriched soil patches. Here
we present evidence of large and rapid increases in the uptake kinetics of plant 
roots after creating nutrient-rich soil patches in the field. The mean rate of
phosphate uptake at a given external phosphate concentration increased by as much
as 80% for roots from enriched soil patches compared with roots of control
patches treated with distilled water. The changes took place within days of patch
treatment. This degree of plasticity was particularly notable for plants growing 
in soils of very low available phosphorus. These results showing rapid
physiological plasticity of roots in fertile soil microsites have important
implications for the theory and modelling of nutrient uptake in all soils.

DOI: 10.1038/344058a0 
PMID: 18278027 


502. Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):56-8.

Hydroperoxides in plants exposed to ozone mediate air pollution damage to alkene 
emitters.

Hewitt CN, Kok GL, Fall R.

OZONE is phytotoxic: it is damaging to cell integrity and photosynthesis(1,2),
causing leaf necrosis(3) and reducing crop yield(4). It has been implicated in
forest decline(5), perhaps through interactions with stress ethene(6). Here we
show that organic hydroperoxides (ROOH), which are products of ozone-alkene
reactions(7-9), are present in the leaves of isoprene-emitting plants after
exposure to ozone, but are not found in control plants grown in clean air. On the
basis of earlier studies(6,7,10), we suggest that this reaction of ozone with
biogenic alkenes to produce toxic ROOH could be one of the mechanisms by which
damage to plants occurs. This could be particularly important in areas
experiencing acidic deposition, where the stability of ROOH will be enhanced.
This model may explain in part the die-back of tree species producing reactive
alkenes, such as the red spruce, which emits isoprene(11-15) and
monoterpenes(16), and the Norway spruce and silver fir, which are both prolific
monoterpene emitters(17).

DOI: 10.1038/344056a0 
PMID: 18278026 


503. Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):54-6.

Sm-Nd evidence for the age and origin of a Mississippi Valley Type ore deposit.

Halliday AN, Shepherd TJ, Dickin AP, Chesley JT.

MISSISSIPPI Valley Type (MVT) ore deposits represent the relatively common
product of large-scale fluid transport in the continental lithosphere, yet the
models for their genesis have been more controversial and unconstrained than
those of any other class of giant ore deposit(1,2). Here we show that Sm-Nd
isotope data can be used to determine the age and origin of an MVT deposit. Sm-Nd
data for fluorites from the North Pennine orefield are difficult to explain
unless some of the mineralization is of Mesozoic rather than the traditionally
accepted Palaeozoic age. Furthermore, the Nd and Sr isotopie compositions of the 
fluorites do not support a variety of recent models that include derivation of
the components from the mantle, the Lower Palaeozoic basement or the underlying
buried granite which served to focus the flow of hydrothermal fluids.

DOI: 10.1038/344054a0 
PMID: 18278025 


504. Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):51-3.

Diffuse volcanic emissions of carbon dioxide from Vulcano Island, Italy.

Baubron JC, Allard P, Toutain JP.

RECENT investigations on Mount Etna (Sicily)(1-3) have revealed that volcanoes
may release abundant carbon dioxide not only from their active craters, but also 
from their flanks, as diffuse soil emanations. Here we present analyses of soil
gases and air in water wells on Vulcano Island which provide further evidence of 
such lateral degassing. Nearly pure carbon dioxide, enriched in helium and radon,
escapes from the slopes of the Fossa active cone, adding a total output of 30
tonnes per day to the fumarolic crater discharge ( 180 tonnes CO(2) per day).
This emanation has similar He/CO(2) and (13)C/(12)C ratios to those of the crater
fumaroles (300%ndash;500 degrees C) and therefore a similar volcanic origin.
Gases rich in carbon dioxide also escape at sea level along the isthmus between
the Fossa and Vulcanello volcanic cones, but their depletion in both He and (13)C
suggests a distinct source. Diffuse volcanic gas emanations, once their genetic
link with central fumarole degassing has been demonstrated, can be used for
continuous volcano monitoring, at safe distances from active craters. Such
monitoring has been initiated at Vulcano, where soil and well emanations of
nearly pure CO(2) themselves represent a threat to the local population.

DOI: 10.1038/344051a0 
PMID: 18278024 


505. Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):49-51.

A novel high-efficiency crystal/polymer composite material for nonlinear optics.

Azoz N, Calvert PD, Kadim M, McCaffery AJ, Seddon KR.

FOR practical applications in optoelectronic devices, nonlinear optical materials
should ideally combine appropriate optical properties (that is, a nonlinear
response to an electric field, characterized by second-harmonic generation) with 
the mechanical properties, such as strength and rigidity, required for ease of
processibility. As reported here, we have developed a new class of material that 
combines these attributes, by growing aligned crystals of an optically nonlinear 
organic compound in a transparent polymer matrix. The host conveys desirable
mechanical characteristics to the otherwise fragile organic crystals. The
composites are transparent and non-scattering, with a refractive index that can
be varied by modification of the polymer host. Given, in addition, the high
chemical stability of these materials, we believe that they will have an
important part to play in the development of optoelectronic devices.

DOI: 10.1038/344049a0 
PMID: 18278023 


506. Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):47-9.

Global atmospheric chemistry of CFC-123.

Prinn RG, Golombek A.

THE compound 1,1-dichloro-2,2,2-trifluoroethane (CFC-123), which is potentially
usable as a foam-blowing agent in the plastics industry, an aerosol propellant
and a refrigerant, has been proposed as an industrial substitute for
trichlorofluoromethane (CFC-11), the use of which is increasingly restricted
because of its effects on the ozone layer and on climate(1-3). It is expected
that CFC-123, although like CFC-11 an absorber of infrared radiation, will be
less stable in the atmosphere because of its expected reaction with OH radicals
in the troposphere. Using a three-dimensional global model of the atmosphere, we 
have calculated the chemical destruction rates of CFC-123 by various processes,
confirming that the chief sink is destruction by OH radicals below 12 km, which
accounts for 88% of its loss. The calculated destruction rate is greatest in the 
equatorial region below 2 km. The calculated steady-state lifetime of CFC-123 is 
1.5 years, based on the best available estimate of the rate constant of the
reaction with OH. This lifetime is very much shorter than that of CFC-11, the
destruction of which is largely confined to the stratosphere. For equal rates (by
mass) of CFC-123 and CFC-11 emission to the atmosphere, the molar content in the 
atmosphere and the injection rate of chlorine into the stratosphere are,
respectively, 48 and 14 times greater for CFC-11 than for CFC-123 in
steady-state.

DOI: 10.1038/344047a0 
PMID: 18278022 


507. Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):45-7.

Are some BL Lacs artefacts of gravitational lensing?

Ostriker JP, Vietri M.

WE suggested in 1985 that a significant fraction of BL Lacertae objects, a kind
of lineless quasar, seen in nearby galaxies are in fact images, gravitationally
lensed and substantially amplified by stars in the nearby galaxy, of background
objects, optically violent variable (OVV) quasars at redshifts z > 1 (ref. 1).
This hypothesis was made on the basis of certain general similarities between BL 
Lacs and O Ws, but for two recently observed BL Lacs(2,3) a strong case can be
made that the accompanying elliptical galaxy is a foreground object. In addition,
we argue that the distribution of BL Lac redshifts is hard to understand without 
gravitational lensing, unless we happen to be at a very local maximum of the
spatial cosmic distribution of BL Lacs. Our analysis also indicates that the
galaxies whose stars are likely to act as microlenses will be found in two peaks,
one nearby, with redshift 0.05-0.10, and the other near the distant quasar.

DOI: 10.1038/344045a0 
PMID: 18278021 


508. Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):43-5.

Galaxy mass deduced from the structure of Einstein ring MG1654+1346.

Langston GI, Conner SR, Lehar J, Burke BF, Weiler KW.

ELLIPTICAL galaxies acting as gravitational lenses occasionally produce
spectacular images-Einstein rings-of distant objects. Giant arcs(1) and radio
rings(2) have been observed. A wide variety of image morphologies is possible,
the generation of which is qualitatively understood in terms of large
magnifications at caustic and critical lines in the lensing geometry(3-5). From
the angular size of the image, and with knowledge of the distances of the lensed 
and lensing object, rough estimates of the mass of the lensing galaxy can be
obtained. We have made high-resolution radio-interferometric observations of
MG1654 + 1346 (ref. 6) a radio quasar in near-perfect alignment with an
elliptical galaxy, and show that radio emission is distorted into a narrow
Einstein ring that lies within a diamond-shaped region bounded by caustic lines. 
From the details of the ring structure, a new model for the lensing geometry is
deduced which leads to a more accurate estimate of the mass of the lensing
galaxy.

DOI: 10.1038/344043a0 
PMID: 18278020 


509. Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):31-6.

The subducted component in island arc lavas: constraints from Be isotopes and
B-Be systematics.

Morris JD, Leeman WP, Tera F.

Although high concentrations of beryllium-10 and boron are taken as unequivocal
indicators of the contribution of subducting plates, controversy persists about
the processes by which material is transferred from slabs to the sources of arc
magmas. Data on (10)Be/Be and B/Be ratios from four arcs suggest that the
contribution from the slab is compositionally homogeneous in each arc and that
subducted boron is not stored in the sub-arc mantle. The link between subduction 
and magma-tism at convergent margins seems to be well regulated.

DOI: 10.1038/344031a0 
PMID: 18278019 


510. Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):80-2.

A 3' splice site-binding sequence in the catalytic core of a group I intron.

Burke JM(1), Esherick JS, Burfeind WR, King JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, University of Vermont,
Burlington 05405.

Ribozymes use specific RNA-RNA interactions for substrate binding and active-site
formation. Self-splicing group I introns have approximately 70 nucleotides
constituting the core, a region containing sequences and structures indispensable
for catalytic function. The catalytic core must interact with the substrates used
for the two steps of the self-splicing reaction, that is, guanosine, the
5'-splice-site helix (P1) and the 3' splice site. Mutational evidence suggests
that core sequences near segment J6/7 that joins the base-paired stems P6 and P7,
and the bulged base of P7(5'), participate in binding guanosine substrate, but
nothing is known about the interactions between the core, the 5'-splice-site
helix and the 3' splice site. On the basis of comparative sequence data, it has
been suggested that two specific bases in the catalytic core of group I introns
might form a binding sequence for the 3' splice site. Here we present genetic
evidence that such a binding site exists in the core of the Tetrahymena large
subunit ribosomal RNA intron. We demonstrate that this pairing, termed P9.0, is
functionally important in the exon ligation step of self-splicing, but is not
itself responsible for 3'-splice-site selection.

DOI: 10.1038/344080a0 
PMID: 2406615  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):74-8.

Cell cycle oscillation of phosphatase inhibitor-2 in rat fibroblasts coincident
with p34cdc2 restriction.

Brautigan DL(1), Sunwoo J, Labbé JC, Fernandez A, Lamb NJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology and Medicine, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island
02912.

Attention has focused on the regulation of the eucaryotic cell division cycle
since the protein kinase p34cdc2 was identified as a key enzyme in mitotic
induction. The level of this kinase remains constant throughout the cell cycle
but its activity alters, particularly before M phase. Although the factors
regulating cdc2 activity are still unknown, there is increasing evidence that it 
is influenced by p34cdc2 dephosphorylation. Protein phosphatase inhibitor-2 (I2) 
is a specific inhibitor of phosphatase type-1, which with type-2A is one of the
two principal Ser(P) and Thr(P) phosphatases. Here we show that the level of I2, 
assayed by immunofluorescence staining, activity measurements, western
immunoblotting and metabolic labelling, oscillates during the cell cycle in rat
fibroblasts, peaking at S phase and mitosis. Moreover, when we inhibited I2 in
vivo by microinjection of anti-I2 antibodies in S-phase cells, the pseudo-mitotic
cellular response to injected p34cdc2 was restored, indicating that I2 might have
a role in the modulation of p34cdc2 activity.

DOI: 10.1038/344074a0 
PMID: 2406614  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):64-5.

Dystrophin gene transcribed from different promoters in neuronal and glial cells.

Chelly J(1), Hamard G, Koulakoff A, Kaplan JC, Kahn A, Berwald-Netter Y.

Author information: 
(1)Unité de Recherche en Génétique et Pathologie Moléculaire, INSERM, CHU Cochin,
Paris, France.

It has been shown that the dystrophin gene, which is defective in patients with
Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy (reviewed in ref. 1), is transcribed in
brain from a specific promoter that is different from the one used in muscle, and
so the two types of transcripts differ at least in their first exon. We recently 
found that the dystrophin gene is expressed at a higher level in primary cultures
of neuronal cells than in astro-glial cells derived from adult mouse brain. Here 
we investigate the use of two different promoters in each cell type. Our results 
demonstrate that the brain-type promoter of the dystrophin gene is highly
specific to neurons, in which there is a significant increase in the amount of
brain-specific messenger RNA during the course of in vitro maturation. By
contrast, the muscle-type promoter is active in a wider range of cell types,
including not only striated and smooth muscle, but also glial cells to a lesser
extent, and probably neurons.

DOI: 10.1038/344064a0 
PMID: 2406613  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):65-7.

Role of self-peptides in positively selecting the T-cell repertoire.

Nikolić-Zugić J(1), Bevan MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Research Institute of Scripps Clinic, La Jolla,
California 92037.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):19-22.

The fate of an immature thymocyte is determined by the specificity of its alpha
beta T-cell receptor. Only cells expressing receptors that interact with
sufficient affinity with major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules
expressed on thymus epithelial cells are positively selected and go on to mature 
and seed the peripheral lymphoid organs. The H-2Kb class-I MHC molecule
positively selects for the maturation of cytotoxic T lymphocytes that will
respond in the periphery to H-2Kb cells presenting a foreign peptide. We have now
analysed the ability of variant H-2Kb molecules to positively select T-cells that
respond to H-2Kb with ovalbumin. Our results indicate that self-peptides,
presented in the groove of the class-I molecule on thymus epithelial cells, are
critically involved in positive selection of the T-cell repertoire. Furthermore, 
the ability of four different H-2Kb variants to select this response in the
thymus correlates with their ability to present the ovalbumin peptide, indicating
that a self-peptide mimic of the foreign peptide could be involved in positive
selection.

DOI: 10.1038/344065a0 
PMID: 2304556  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):60-2.

Modulation of the motion aftereffect by selective attention.

Chaudhuri A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Vision Center Laboratory, Salk Institute, San Diego, California 92138-9216.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):22.

The motion aftereffect is a much studied and well documented phenomenon. After
viewing a moving visual pattern for a period of time, the same pattern appears to
drift in the opposite direction when it is stopped. Psychophysical experiments
involving interocular transfer, dichoptic stimulation, and motion aftereffects
contingent upon other visual parameters such as colour, orientation and texture, 
imply that the motion aftereffect is generated at the level of the visual cortex.
It has been hypothesized that cortical neurons specialized for the detection of
motion along a particular direction become 'fatigued' during the adaptation
period so that the resting equilibrium subsequently shifts in the opposite
direction to that of the adapting stimulus, giving rise to the sensation of the
aftereffect. I have found that if observers are engaged in a separate
discrimination task superimposed on a moving textured background, the subsequent 
motion aftereffect to the background is considerably reduced. It seems that
motion aftereffects are susceptible to attentional mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1038/344060a0 
PMID: 2304555  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):72-4.

Transactivation by the hepatitis B virus X protein depends on AP-2 and other
transcription factors.

Seto E(1), Mitchell PJ, Yen TS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of California School of Medicine, San
Francisco 94143-0506.

The hepatitis B virus (HBV) X gene product (pX) could be important in disease
pathogenesis because it is known to transactivate transcription from many viral
and cellular gene promoters, including the HBV core gene promoter, the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) long terminal repeat, and the c-myc promoter. We
have previously shown that only a subset of the promoters that can be
transactivated by pX is transactivated in any particular cell line, and have
proposed that pX acts through multiple, cell type-specific transcription factors.
We show here that pX acts through both AP-1 and AP-2 sites, and that pX has a
transcription activation domain. We conclude that transactivation by pX depends
on at least two distinct cellular DNA-binding transcription factors and we
present a model for the action of pX.

DOI: 10.1038/344072a0 
PMID: 2154703  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):36-42.

Analysis of cDNA for human erythrocyte ankyrin indicates a repeated structure
with homology to tissue-differentiation and cell-cycle control proteins.

Lux SE(1), John KM, Bennett V.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

Analysis of complementary DNA for human erythroid ankyrin indicates that the
mature protein contains 1,880 amino acids comprising an N-terminal domain binding
integral membrane proteins and tubulin, a central domain binding spectrin and
vimentin, and an acidic C-terminal 'regulatory' domain containing an
alternatively spliced sequence missing from ankyrin variant 2.2. The N-terminal
domain is almost entirely composed of 22 tandem 33-amino-acid repeats. Similar
repeats are found in yeast and invertebrate proteins involved in cell-cycle
control and tissue differentiation.

DOI: 10.1038/344036a0 
PMID: 2137557  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):78-80.

Are cross-regulatory interactions between homoeotic genes functionally
significant?

González-Reyes A(1), Urquia N, Gehring WJ, Struhl G, Morata G.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Biología Molecular (CSIC-UAM), Universidad Autónoma, Madrid, Spain.

The first instar larva of Drosophila consists of a chain of segments or
parasegments in which the morphological pattern characteristic of each metamere
is determined by the homoeotic genes, which are active in overlapping domains and
are known to interact among themselves. The interactions occur at the level of
transcription and allow some homoeotic genes to control the patterns and levels
of expression of others. The best known among them are the down-regulation of
Antennapedia (Antp) by Ultrabithorax (Ubx) and that of Ubx by abdominal-A (abd-A)
and Abdominal-B (Abd-B). It has been proposed that these cross-regulatory
interactions play a part in specifying cell pattern, and hence the identity of
each metamere. Here we assess the functional significance of some of these
interactions by expressing the Antp, Ubx or both homoeotic genes under the
control of the heat-shock promoter. Predictably, we find that homoeotic gene
products evade normal regulatory controls and can be maximally expressed in
regions where they are normally down-regulated but, surprisingly, we find that
interruption of the normal down-regulation of Antp and Ubx has no phenotypic
consequences in the epidermis, where homoeotic phenotypes are normally manifest. 
Hence our results challenge the view that these, and possibly other
cross-regulatory interactions have a role in determining segmental identity.

DOI: 10.1038/344078a0 
PMID: 1968232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):70-2.

A soluble form of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 inhibits rhinovirus
infection.

Marlin SD(1), Staunton DE, Springer TA, Stratowa C, Sommergruber W, Merluzzi VJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
Ridgefield, Connecticut 06877.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):16.

Rhinoviruses belong to the picornavirus family and cause about 50% of common
colds. Most rhinoviruses and some coxsackie viruses share a common receptor on
human cells. The glycoprotein intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) has
recently been identified as the cellular receptor for the subgroup of
rhinoviruses known as the major groups. ICAM-1 is a member of the immunoglobulin 
supergene family and is a ligand for lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1
(LFA-1); these ICAM-1/LFA-1 interactions are critical to many cell adhesion
processes involved in the immunological response. Because anti-ICAM-1 antibodies 
can block binding of major-group rhinoviruses to cells, we considered that
antagonism of virus-receptor interaction might be a way of preventing rhinovirus 
infection. We have constructed and purified a soluble form of the ICAM-1
molecule, which is normally membrane-bound, and demonstrated that it is a potent 
and specific inhibitor of rhinovirus infection.

DOI: 10.1038/344070a0 
PMID: 1968231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):68-70.

Origin of Thy-1+ dendritic epidermal cells of adult mice from fetal thymic
precursors.

Havran WL(1), Allison JP.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley 94720.

The skin of mice contains dendritic epidermal cells carrying the Thy-1 antigen
(Thy-1+ dEC) which express antigen receptors composed of the T-cell antigen
receptor (TCR) gamma- and delta-chains. Although the role of the thymus in the
generation of most T cells is well established, the involvement of the thymus in 
the generation of Thy-1+ dEC is not clear. Because bone marrow cells can give
rise in Thy-1+ dEC in chimaeric mice and Thy-1+ dEC are detected in the skin of
athymic nude nice, it has been proposed that Thy-1+ dEC arise continuously from
bone marrow precursors by a thymus-independent mechanism. But it has recently
been determined that Thy-1+ dEC in nude mice do not express TCR at the cell
surface, and that the gamma- and delta-chain genes are in germ-line
configuration, leaving the role of the thymus in the generation of Thy-1+ dEC
uncertain. Most Thy-1+ dEC in all normal mouse strains examined express TCR
containing the V gamma 3 gene product. This V gene segment is expressed on the
first wave of TCR-expressing cells to emerge during fetal development, and in
adult mice is detectable only on cells in the epidermis. In addition to use of
this 'fetal' V gamma segment, other features of the Thy-1+ dEC TCR genes,
including absence or minimal presence of nongerm-line-encoded nucleotides at the 
junctions and use of a single D element in the rearranged delta-chain gene are
typical of rearrangements found in fetal, and not adult, thymus. Here we
demonstrate that precursors that are present only in the fetal thymus give rise
to Thy-1+ dEC in the skin of adult mice.

DOI: 10.1038/344068a0 
PMID: 1968230  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Nature. 1990 Mar 1;344(6261):62-3.

Interaction between neuropeptide Y and noradrenaline on central catecholamine
neurons.

Illes P(1), Regenold JT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Freiburg, FRG.

Despite their widespread occurrence in the central nervous system, interactions
between co-localized transmitters and their receptors remain poorly understood.
Noradrenergic neurons of the nucleus locus coeruleus contain the peptide
co-transmitter neuropeptide Y (refs 1,2). In locus coeruleus cells, stimulation
of alpha2-adrenoceptors 3,4 or opioid mu-receptors 5,6 increases a potassium
conductance and thereby leads to hyperpolarization and inhibition of spontaneous 
firing. Coupling between these receptors and the inward rectifying K+ channels
involves a pertussis toxin-sensitive GTP-binding protein (Gi or Go)7. Here we
investigate whether the neuropeptide Y and alpha2-receptors of locus coeruleus
neurons interact with one another. When administered alone, neuropeptide Y
reduces the discharge of action potentials, probably by increasing the
permeability of the membrane to potassium ions through the activation of a G
protein; this effect is reduced in the presence of alpha2-adrenoceptor
antagonists. Moreover, the peptide selectively increases the hyperpolarizing
effect of alpha2-agonists, but does not enhance responses to opioid mu-agonists. 
We suggest that noradrenaline and its co-transmitter neuropeptide Y stimulate
separate receptors, which influence each other in a specific way.

DOI: 10.1038/344062a0 
PMID: 1968229  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Nature. 1990 Feb 22;343(6260):728-31.

Amino-acid synthesis in carbonaceous meteorites by aqueous alteration of
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons

Shock EL(1), Schulte MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Washington University, St Louis,
Missouri 63130, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 1991 Apr 4;350(6317):387-8.

It has been suggested that amino acids and other organic compounds found in
carbonaceous meteorites formed by aqueous alteration in the meteorite parent
bodies. Observations of carbonaceous material in interstellar grains and
interplanetary dust particles indicate that condensed organic compounds may have 
been present in meteorite parent bodies at the time of aqueous alteration. One
group of compounds thought to be representative of this carbonaceous material is 
the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). Recently it was proposed that PAHs
condense on SiC grains in the molecular envelopes of carbon-rich red-giant stars,
which would allow for their subsequent incorporation into meteorite parent bodies
during accretion. This incorporation mechanism is supported by the identification
of SiC grains in carbonaceous chondrites. The possibility therefore exists that
PAHs, and/or other condensed organic compounds, represent the starting material
for aqueous alteration which leads to the formation of amino acids and other
water-soluble organic compounds. Here we present calculations of the distribution
of aqueous organic compounds in metastable equilibrium with representative PAHs
as functions of the fugacities of O2, CO2 and NH3. The results reported here for 
pyrene and fluoranthene, two PAHs with different structures but the same
stoichiometry, differ greatly but indicate that the formation of amino and
carboxylic acids is energetically favourable at probable parent-body alteration
conditions. The actual reaction mechanisms involved could be revealed by
consideration of isotope data for PAHs, amino acids, other organic compounds and 
carbonates in carbonaceous chondrites.

DOI: 10.1038/343728a0 
PMID: 11536464  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Nature. 1990 Feb 22;343(6260):767-70.

A serine protease triad forms the catalytic centre of a triacylglycerol lipase.

Brady L(1), Brzozowski AM, Derewenda ZS, Dodson E, Dodson G, Tolley S, Turkenburg
JP, Christiansen L, Huge-Jensen B, Norskov L, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of York, Heslington, UK.

True lipases attach triacylglycerols and act at an oil-water interface; they
constitute a ubiquitous group of enzymes catalysing a wide variety of reactions, 
many with industrial potential. But so far the three-dimensional structure has
not been reported for any lipase. Here we report the X-ray structure of the Mucor
miehei triglyceride lipase and describe the atomic model obtained at 3.1 A
resolution and refined to 1.9 A resolution. It reveals a Ser..His..Asp
trypsin-like catalytic triad with an active serine buried under a short helical
fragment of a long surface loop.

DOI: 10.1038/343767a0 
PMID: 2304552  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Nature. 1990 Feb 22;343(6260):764-7.

Ion channels in the nuclear envelope.

Mazzanti M(1), DeFelice LJ, Cohn J, Malter H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Emory University School of Medicine,
Atlanta, Georgia 30322.

Cell nuclei are capable of partitioning a wide variety of molecules from the
cytosol, including macromolecules such as proteins and RNA, and smaller peptides,
amino acids, sugars and Na+ and K+ ions, all of which can be accumulated in or
excluded from the nuclear domain. There are two mechanisms behind this
compartmentalization: selective retention of freely diffusible molecules, and
selective entry through the nuclear envelope. It is generally accepted that the
nuclear envelope restricts only the larger molecules. Here we apply the
patch-clamp technique to isolated murine pronuclei and show that the nuclear
envelope contains K(+)-selective channels which have multiple conductance states,
the maximal conductance being 200 pS. These channels, which contribute to the
nuclear membrane potential, may be important in balancing the charge carried by
the movement of macromolecules in and out of the nucleus.

DOI: 10.1038/343764a0 
PMID: 2304551  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Nature. 1990 Feb 22;343(6260):760-2.

Molecular components of the B-cell antigen receptor complex of the IgM class.

Hombach J(1), Tsubata T, Leclercq L, Stappert H, Reth M.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Immunbiologie, Freiburg, FRG.

The antigen receptors on mature B lymphocytes are membrane-bound immunoglobulins 
of the IgM and IgD classes whose cross-linking by polyvalent antigens results in 
B-cell proliferation and differentiation. How these membrane-bound immunoglobulin
chains, which lack a cytoplasmic tail, generate a cell activation signal is not
at present known. We now show that the IgM molecule is non-covalently associated 
in the membrane of B cells with two proteins of relative molecular mass 34,000
(Mr 34 K; IgM-alpha) and 39 K (Ig-beta) which form a disulphide-linked
heterodimer. Surface expression of IgM seems to require the formation of an
appropriate complex between IgM and the heterodimer. A transfection experiment
indicates that IgM-alpha is the product of mb-1, a B-cell specific gene encoding 
a transmembrane protein with sequence homology to proteins of the T-cell antigen 
receptor-CD3 complex.

DOI: 10.1038/343760a0 
PMID: 2304550  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Nature. 1990 Feb 22;343(6260):719-26.

In vitro replication through nucleosomes without histone displacement.

Bonne-Andrea C(1), Wong ML, Alberts BM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California, San
Francisco 94143-0448.

A well-characterized set of proteins encoded by bacteriophage T4 replicates DNA
in vitro and generates replication forks that can pass nucleosomes. The histone
octamers remain associated with newly replicated DNA even in the presence of
excess DNA competitor, and intact nucleosomes re-form on the two daughter DNA
helices. It is concluded that nucleosomes are designed to open up transiently to 
allow the passage of a replication fork without histone displacement.

DOI: 10.1038/343719a0 
PMID: 2304549  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Nature. 1990 Feb 22;343(6260):774-8.

Homozygous deletion in Wilms tumours of a zinc-finger gene identified by
chromosome jumping.

Gessler M(1), Poustka A, Cavenee W, Neve RL, Orkin SH, Bruns GA.

Author information: 
(1)Genetics Division, Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

Cytogenetic analysis has identified chromosome 11p13 as the smallest overlap
region for deletions found in individuals with WAGR syndrome, which includes
Wilms tumour (a recessive childhood nephroblastoma), aniridia, genito-urinary
abnormalities and mental retardation. The underlying loci have since been
resolved into an aniridia (AN2) locus at a telomeric position, and a locus of
closely spaced genes or a single pleiotropic gene involved in genito-urinary
tract abnormalities and Wilms tumour at a more centromeric position. Pulsed-field
gel analysis of the 11p13 region has revealed the presence of several putative
CpG islands, structures which are frequently associated with the 5' ends of
expressed sequences, mainly housekeeping genes and some tissue-specific genes.
Starting from a CpG island, we have now isolated four neighbouring CpG islands,
all within 650 kilobases (kb), by means of two consecutive bidirectional jumps in
rare-cutting restriction-enzyme jumping libraries. In two instances, flanking
sequences were conserved in other species and RNA transcripts were identified. A 
complementary DNA clone isolated for one of them derives from an RNA highly
expressed in fetal kidney, and is predicted to encode a Krüppel-like zinc-finger 
protein that is probably a transcription factor. The entire cDNA region is
included in two partially overlapping homozygous deletions found in Wilms tumour 
DNA samples. Cloning of the breakpoints in one tumour revealed a deletion size of
170 kb, one-third of which is covered by the cDNA. The expression pattern and
sequence of this cDNA could point to an important role for its corresponding gene
in the normal development of the renal system as well as in Wilms tumour.

DOI: 10.1038/343774a0 
PMID: 2154702  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Nature. 1990 Feb 22;343(6260):762-4.

Activation of cell growth by binding of Friend spleen focus-forming virus gp55
glycoprotein to the erythropoietin receptor.

Li JP(1), D'Andrea AD, Lodish HF, Baltimore D.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Nine Cambridge Center,
Massachusetts 02142.

Friend spleen focus-forming virus (SFFV) is a defective murine C-type retrovirus 
which causes a multi-stage erythroleukaemia in mice and erythroblastosis in bone 
marrow cultures. The SFFV env gene encodes a membrane glycoprotein, gp55, which
is located on the cell surface and in the rough endoplasmic reticulum and is
essential both for the induction of leukaemia in vivo and erythroblast
proliferation in vitro. The mechanism by which gp55 causes increased
erythroblastosis and ultimately leukaemia is unknown, but a reasonable suggestion
is that gp55 can mimic the action of erythropoietin by binding to its receptor
(Epo-R), thereby triggering prolonged proliferation of erythroid cells. To test
this possibility, we have co-expressed gp55 and the murine Epo-R in a fibroblast 
cell line. We show here that in such cells, the SFFV glycoprotein binds directly 
to Epo-R. Furthermore, when an interleukin-3 (IL-3)-dependent lymphoid cell line 
was co-infected by SFFV and a virus that carries the Epo-R gene, it could grow
without IL-3. We suggest that through direct binding to Epo-R, gp55 can stimulate
the receptor and by-pass the normal requirement for Epo, causing prolonged
proliferation of infected erythroid cells. This could be the first step of
leukaemogenesis induced by Friend virus.

DOI: 10.1038/343762a0 
PMID: 2154701  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Nature. 1990 Feb 22;343(6260):754-7.

Homing of a gamma delta thymocyte subset with homogeneous T-cell receptors to
mucosal epithelia.

Itohara S(1), Farr AG, Lafaille JJ, Bonneville M, Takagaki Y, Haas W, Tonegawa S.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge 02139.

In mice gamma delta T-cell populations with distinct T-cell receptor (TCR)
repertoires and homing properties have been identified. Diversified populations
are found in lymphoid organs and intestinal epithelia. By contrast, the gamma
delta T-cells that have been found in the murine skin are homogeneous. They
express a TCR consisting of one particular V gamma 5 and one particular V delta 1
chain and seem to originate from early fetal thymocytes. We have now
systematically analysed many tissues by immunohistochemistry and TCR gene
sequencing aided by the polymerase chain reaction. These studies revealed a
second homogeneous gamma delta T-cell subset in epithelia not of the intestine
and skin, but of the vagina, uterus and tongue. The TCR expressed by this gamma
delta T-cell subset consists of the same V delta 1 chain. Cells that express this
particular TCR have previously been shown to be positively selected in the late
fetal thymus.

DOI: 10.1038/343754a0 
PMID: 2154700  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Nature. 1990 Feb 22;343(6260):771-4.

Structure of human pancreatic lipase.

Winkler FK(1), D'Arcy A, Hunziker W.

Author information: 
(1)Central Research Units, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Basel, Switzerland.

Pancreatic lipase (triacylglycerol acyl hydrolase) fulfills a key function in
dietary fat absorption by hydrolysing triglycerides into diglycerides and
subsequently into monoglycerides and free fatty acids. We have determined the
three-dimensional structure of the human enzyme, a single-chain glycoprotein of
449 amino acids, by X-ray crystallography and established its primary structure
by sequencing complementary DNA clones. Enzymatic activity is lost after chemical
modification of Ser 152 in the porcine enzyme, indicating that this residue is
essential in catalysis, but other data are more consistent with a function in
interfacial recognition. Our structural results are evidence that Ser 152 is the 
nucleophilic residue essential for catalysis. It is located in the larger
N-terminal domain at the C-terminal edge of a doubly wound parallel beta-sheet
and is part of an Asp-His-Ser triad, which is chemically analogous to, but
structurally different from, that in the serine proteases. This putative
hydrolytic site is covered by a surface loop and is therefore inaccessible to
solvent. Interfacial activation, a characteristic property of lipolytic enzymes
acting on water-insoluble substrates at water-lipid interfaces, probably involves
a reorientation of this flap, not only in pancreatic lipases but also in the
homologous hepatic and lipoprotein lipases.

DOI: 10.1038/343771a0 
PMID: 2106079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Nature. 1990 Feb 22;343(6260):714-9.

Self-reactive gamma delta T cells are eliminated in the thymus.

Dent AL(1), Matis LA, Hooshmand F, Widacki SM, Bluestone JA, Hedrick SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla 92093.

The genes encoding a gamma delta T-cell receptor specific for a major
histocompatibility complex class I molecule encoded by the TIa locus have been
inserted into the mouse germ line. In mice that do not express the TIa-encoded
determinant, transgenic gamma delta T cells are a functional component of the
CD4-CD8- 'double-negative' T cells in the thymus and peripheral lymphoid organs. 
In mice that express the TIa-encoded determinant, there are no transgenic gamma
delta T cells in peripheral lymphoid organs, and there are no thymocytes
expressing normal levels of the transgenic gamma delta T-cell receptor.

DOI: 10.1038/343714a0 
PMID: 1968227  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Nature. 1990 Feb 22;343(6260):779-80.

Silver staining of proteins and DNA.

Merril CR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biochemical Genetics, National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes
of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

Silver stains offer high sensitivity for the detection of proteins and DNA
separated on gels and membranes. These stains depend on the reduction of ionic to
metallic silver.

DOI: 10.1038/343779a0 
PMID: 1689465  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Nature. 1990 Feb 22;343(6260):757-60.

Rapid neutrophil adhesion to activated endothelium mediated by GMP-140.

Geng JG(1), Bevilacqua MP, Moore KL, McIntyre TM, Prescott SM, Kim JM, Bliss GA, 
Zimmerman GA, McEver RP.

Author information: 
(1)St. Francis Medical Research Institute, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

Granule membrane protein-140 (GMP-140), a membrane glycoprotein of platelet and
endothelial cell secretory granules, is rapidly redistributed to the plasma
membrane during cellular activation and degranulation. Also known as PADGEM
protein, GMP-140 is structurally related to two molecules involved in leukocyte
adhesion to vascular endothelium: ELAM-1, a cytokine-inducible endothelial cell
receptor for neutrophils, and the MEL-14 lymphocyte homing receptor. These three 
proteins define a new gene family, termed selectins, each of which contains an
N-terminal lectin domain, followed by an epidermal growth factor-like module, a
variable number of repeating units related to those in complement-binding
proteins, a transmembrane domain, and a short cytoplasmic tail. Here we
demonstrate that GMP-140 can mediate leukocyte adhesion, thus establishing a
functional similarity with the other selectins. Human neutrophils and
promyelocytic HL-60 cells bind specifically to COS cells transfected with GMP-140
complementary DNA and to microtitre wells coated with purified GMP-140. Cell
binding does not require active neutrophil metabolism but is dependent on
extracellular Ca2+. Within minutes after stimulation with phorbol esters or
histamine, human endothelial cells become adhesive for neutrophils; this
interaction is inhibited by antibodies to GMP-140. Thus, GMP-140 expressed by
activated endothelium might promote rapid neutrophil targeting to sites of acute 
inflammation.

DOI: 10.1038/343757a0 
PMID: 1689464  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Nature. 1990 Feb 15;343(6259):662-5.

Subcellular fate of the int-2 oncoprotein is determined by choice of initiation
codon.

Acland P(1), Dixon M, Peters G, Dickson C.

Author information: 
(1)Imperial Cancer Research Fund Laboratories, UK.

Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) have been implicated in many aspects of cell
growth and differentiation both in normal and neoplastic settings. For example,
the mouse int-2 gene, which encodes an FGF-related product, is a frequent target 
of proviral activation in carcinomas induced by mouse mammary tumour virus, but
apparently functions at discrete stages of normal embryonic development. Six
classes of int-2 messenger RNA have been identified in embryonic cells, each of
which is predicted to encode the same 245-amino-acid protein. But all known int-2
transcripts include sequences upstream of the AUG codon presumed to be the
initiation codon. Here we report an additional N-terminally extended int-2 gene
product initiated at an in-frame CUG codon. In COS-1 cells transiently
transfected with appropriate int-2 complementary DNAs, the AUG-initiated product 
is found predominantly in the secretory pathway, whereas the CUG-initiated form
is localized to the nucleus. These data indicate that the Int-2 oncoprotein could
influence cellular behaviour by two distinct mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1038/343662a0 
PMID: 2406607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Nature. 1990 Feb 15;343(6259):653-7.

Low dimensional chaos in cardiac tissue.

Chialvo DR(1), Gilmour RF Jr, Jalife J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, SUNY Health Science Center 13210.

Chaos is a term used to characterize aperiodic activity arising in a dynamical
system, or in a set of equations describing the system's temporal evolution as a 
result of a deterministic mechanism that has sensitive dependence on initial
conditions. Chaos, in that sense, has been proposed to make an important
contribution to normal and abnormal cardiac rhythms. To date, however,
descriptions of chaos in heart tissue have been limited primarily to periodically
forced cardiac pacemakers. Because many cardiac rhythm disturbances, particularly
those initiated or perpetuated by re-entrant excitation, originate from within
non-pacemaker cardiac tissues, demonstrations of chaos in non-pacemaker tissue
might provide a deterministic explanation for a wide variety of complex
dysrhythmias. Here we report experimental evidence for chaotic patterns of
activation and action potential characteristics in externally driven,
non-spontaneously active Purkinje fibres and ventricular muscle. The results
indicate that there is an apparent link between the mechanism of low dimensional 
chaos and the occurrence of reflected responses which could lead to more
spatially disorganized phenomena. A detailed mechanism for the low dimensional
chaos observed experimentally is pursued using a difference equation model.
Critical features of the model include a non-monotonic relationship between
recovery time during rhythmic stimulation and the state of membrane properties,
and a steeply sloped recovery of membrane properties over certain ranges of
recovery times. Besides explaining our results, the analytical model may pertain 
to irregular dynamics in other excitable systems, particularly the intact
dysrhythmic heart.

DOI: 10.1038/343653a0 
PMID: 2304537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Nature. 1990 Feb 15;343(6259):644-7.

A dimension reduction framework for understanding cortical maps.

Durbin R(1), Mitchison G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Stanford University, California 94305.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jul 5;346(6279):24.

We argue that cortical maps, such as those for ocular dominance, orientation and 
retinotopic position in primary visual cortex, can be understood in terms of
dimension-reducing mappings from many-dimensional parameter spaces to the surface
of the cortex. The goal of these mappings is to preserve as far as possible
neighbourhood relations in parameter space so that local computations in
parameter space can be performed locally in the cortex. We have found that, in a 
simple case, certain self-organizing models generate maps that are near-optimally
local, in the sense that they come close to minimizing the neuronal wiring
required for local operations. When these self-organizing models are applied to
the task of simultaneously mapping retinotopic position and orientation, they
produce maps with orientation vortices resembling those produced in primary
visual cortex. This approach also yields a new prediction, which is that the
mapping of position in visual cortex will be distorted in the orientation
fracture zones.

DOI: 10.1038/343644a0 
PMID: 2304536  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Nature. 1990 Feb 15;343(6259):642-4.

Programmed death of autoreactive thymocytes.

MacDonald HR(1), Lees RK.

Author information: 
(1)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, Epalinges, Switzerland.

T lymphocytes bearing high-affinity T-cell receptors (TCR) for self-antigens are 
clonally deleted during thymus development. Several recent studies have
identified variable domains of the beta-chain of the TCR that are specifically
deleted in vivo in mouse strains that express major histocompatibility complex
class II molecules in addition to poorly defined self-antigens, including those
encoded by the Mls-1a and Mls-2a loci. Deletion of autoreactive cells in these
systems occurs in the thymus, and antibody blocking experiments in vivo have
implicated the phenotypically immature CD4+CD8+ 'cortical' subset as the target
population for clonal deletion. Similarly, studies with transgenic mice bearing
autoreactive TCR have provided independent evidence that clonal deletion occurs
at the CD4+CD8+ stage of development. But none of these studies directly
identified dying autoreactive cells, and the circumstances leading to deletion
remain unclear. Here we report that neonatal thymus contains a significant
population of phenotypically mature CD4+CD8- cells bearing autoreactive TCR. When
placed in short-term culture, a large proportion (60%) of these autoreactive
cells die selectively. Furthermore, their death can be prevented by inhibitors of
macromolecule (RNA and protein) synthesis, as is the case for
glucocorticoid-induced death of thymocytes. These data indicate that
physiological clonal deletion of autoreactive cells involves 'programmed' cell
death, and that it can occur in cells with a mature (CD4+CD8-) surface phenotype.

DOI: 10.1038/343642a0 
PMID: 2304535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Nature. 1990 Feb 15;343(6259):659-61.

HIV susceptibility conferred to human fibroblasts by cytomegalovirus-induced Fc
receptor.

McKeating JA(1), Griffiths PD, Weiss RA.

Author information: 
(1)Chester Beatty Laboratories, Institute of Cancer Research, London, UK.

The main receptor for the human immunodeficiency viruses type 1 and 2 (HIV-1 and 
HIV-2) on T and B lymphocytes, monocytes and macrophages is the CD4 antigen 1-3. 
Infection of these cells is blocked by monoclonal antibodies to CD4(1,2) and by
recombinant soluble CD4(4-9). Expression of transfected CD4 on the surface of
HeLa and other human cells renders them susceptible to HIV infection 10.
HIV-antibody complexes can also infect monocytes and macrophages by means of
receptors for the Fc portion of immunoglobulins (FcR)11-13), or complement
receptors 14,15. The expression of IgG FcRs can be induced in cells infected with
human herpes viruses such as herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1)16,17 and human
cytomegalovirus (CMV)18-21. Here we demonstrate that FcRs induced by CMV allow
immune complexes of HIV to infect fibroblasts otherwise not permissive to HIV
infection. Infection was inhibited by prior incubation with human IgG, but not by
anti-CD4 antibody or by recombinant soluble CD4. Once HIV had entered
CMV-infected cells by means of the FcR, its replication could be enhanced by CMV 
transactivating factors. Synergism between HIV and herpes viruses could also
operate in vivo, enhancing immunosuppression and permitting the spread of HIV to 
cells not expressing CD4.

DOI: 10.1038/343659a0 
PMID: 2154697  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Nature. 1990 Feb 15;343(6259):651-3.

Requirement for integration of signals from two distinct phosphorylation pathways
for activation of MAP kinase.

Anderson NG(1), Maller JL, Tonks NK, Sturgill TW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Pharmacology, University of Virginia
School of Medicine, Charlottesville 22908.

MAP kinase (relative molecular mass, 42,000), a low abundance serine--threonine
protein kinase, is transiently activated in many cell types by a variety of
mitogens, including insulin, epidermal growth factor, and phorbol esters. In
vitro, MAP kinase will phosphorylate and reactivate S6 kinase II previously
inactivated by phosphatase treatment. Because many of the stimuli that activate
MAP kinase are also stimulators of cell proliferation, and regulation of the cell
cycle seems to involve a network of protein kinases, MAP kinase could be
important in the transmission of stimuli eventually leading to the progression
from G0 to G1 in the cell cycle. Activated MAP kinase contains both
phosphotyrosine and phosphothreonine. We report here that MAP kinase can be
deactivated completely by treatment with either phosphatase 2A, a protein
phosphatase specific for phosphoserine and phosphothreonine, or CD45, a
phosphotyrosine-specific protein phosphatase. We demonstrate that MAP kinase is
only active when both tyrosyl and threonyl residues are phosphorylated and
suggest therefore that the enzyme functions in vivo to integrate signals from two
distinct transduction pathways.

DOI: 10.1038/343651a0 
PMID: 2154696  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Nature. 1990 Feb 15;343(6259):647-51.

Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II increases glutamate and
noradrenaline release from synaptosomes.

Nichols RA(1), Sihra TS, Czernik AJ, Nairn AC, Greengard P.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience, Rockefeller University, New
York, New York 10021.

A variety of evidence indicates that calcium-dependent protein phosphorylation
modulates the release of neurotransmitter from nerve terminals. For instance, the
injection of rat calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II
(Ca2+/CaM-dependent PK II) into the preterminal digit of the squid giant synapse 
leads to an increase in the release of a so-far unidentified neurotransmitter
induced by presynaptic depolarization. But until now, it has not been
demonstrated that Ca2+/CaM-dependent PK II can also regulate neurotransmitter
release in the vertebrate nervous system. Here we report that the introduction of
Ca2+/CaM-dependent PK II, autoactivated by thiophosphorylation, into rat brain
synaptosomes (isolated nerve terminals) increases the initial rate of induced
release of two neurotransmitters, glutamate and noradrenaline. We also show that 
introduction of a selective peptidergic inhibitor of Ca2+/CaM-dependent PK II
inhibits the initial rate of induced glutamate release. These results support the
hypothesis that activation of Ca2+/CaM-dependent PK II in the nerve terminal
removes a constraint on neurotransmitter release.

DOI: 10.1038/343647a0 
PMID: 2154695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Nature. 1990 Feb 15;343(6259):617-22.

Cloning of the T gene required in mesoderm formation in the mouse.

Herrmann BG(1), Labeit S, Poustka A, King TR, Lehrach H.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Embryology, National Institute for Medical Research,
London, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Feb 15;343(6259):597-8.

The murine developmental mutation T identifies an essential gene in mesoderm
formation. Embryos lacking normal gene activity fail to form the notochord, the
entire posterior region and the allantois, and die at about 10 days of gestation.
We have isolated the T gene using a combination of molecular and genetic
techniques, thus making molecular tools available to study processes underlying
mesoderm formation in the mouse.

DOI: 10.1038/343617a0 
PMID: 2154694  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


541. Nature. 1990 Feb 15;343(6259):669-72.

Non-hydrophobic extracytoplasmic determinant of stop transfer in the prion
protein.

Yost CS(1), Lopez CD, Prusiner SB, Myers RM, Lingappa VR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesia, University of California, San Francisco 94143.

A universal feature of integral transmembrane proteins is a hydrophobic peptide
segment that spans the lipid bilayer. These hydrophobic domains are important for
terminating the translocation of the polypeptide chain across the membrane of the
endoplasmic reticulum (a process termed stop transfer) and for integrating the
protein into the bilayer. But a role for extracytoplasmic sequences in stop
transfer and transmembrane integration has not previously been shown. Recently, a
sequence which directs an unusual mode of stop transfer has been identified in
the prion protein. This brain glycoprotein exists in two isoforms, which are
identical both in primary amino-acid sequence and in containing
phosphatidylinositol glycolipid linkages at their C termini, which can be cleaved
by a phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C9. But only one of the isoforms
(PrPC) is released from cells on treatment with this phospholipase, indicating
that the two isoforms have either different subcellular locations or
transmembrane orientations. Consistent with this is the observation of two
different topological forms in cell-free systems. An unusual topogenic sequence
in the prion protein seems to direct these alternative topologies (manuscript in 
preparation). In the wheat-germ translation system, this sequence directs nascent
chains to a transmembrane orientation; by contrast, in the rabbit reticulocyte
lysate system, this sequence fails to cause stop transfer of most nascent chains.
We have now investigated determinants in this unusual topogenic sequence that
direct transmembrane topology, and have demonstrated that (1) a luminally
disposed charged domain is required for stop transfer at the adjacent hydrophobic
domain, (2) a precise spatial relationship between these domains is essential for
efficient stop transfer, and (3) codons encompassing this hydrophilic
extracytoplasmic domain confer transmembrane topology to a heterologous protein
when engineered adjacent to the codons for a normally translocated hydrophobic
domain. These results identify an unexpected functional domain for stop transfer 
in the prion protein and have implications for the mechanism of membrane protein 
biogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/343669a0 
PMID: 1968226  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Nature. 1990 Feb 15;343(6259):665-9.

Retinoblastoma in transgenic mice.

Windle JJ(1), Albert DM, O'Brien JM, Marcus DM, Disteche CM, Bernards R, Mellon
PL.

Author information: 
(1)Regulatory Biology Laboratory, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La
Jolla, California 92037.

Retinoblastoma, a malignancy of the eye occurring in young children, has been
widely studied as a model for genetic predisposition to cancer. This disease is
caused by mutations in both alleles of an anti-oncogene (the retinoblastoma gene,
Rb) that inactivate or eliminate the Rb encoded protein, p105Rb (refs 1 and 2).
Here we report that expression of a viral oncogene, the simian virus 40 T
antigen, in the retina of transgenic mice produces heritable ocular tumours with 
histological, ultrastructural and immunohistochemical features identical to those
of human retinoblastoma. Furthermore, we demonstrate a specific association
between p105Rb and T antigen in mouse retinoblastoma tumour cells. Thus, the
occurrence of these tumours is in vivo evidence for oncogenesis due to the
ocular-specific expression of an Rb-binding oncoprotein that can functionally
inactivate the Rb protein. As an animal model for heritable retinoblastoma, these
mice should allow the study of the ontogeny, pathogenesis and treatment of this
malignant disease.

DOI: 10.1038/343665a0 
PMID: 1689463  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Nature. 1990 Feb 15;343(6259):657-9.

Expression pattern of the mouse T gene and its role in mesoderm formation.

Wilkinson DG(1), Bhatt S, Herrmann BG.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Eukaryotic Molecular Genetics, National Institute for Medical
Research, London, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Feb 15;343(6259):597-8.

Formation of mesoderm is a crucial event in vertebrate development, establishing 
many of the important features of the body. Recent studies have implicated
molecules that are similar to growth factors in mesoderm formation in Xenopus,
but other gene products involved in this process have yet to be identified.
Genetic evidence indicates that in the mouse the T gene (Brachyury) has a role in
the formation and organization of mesoderm. Mice homozygous for mutant alleles of
the T gene do not generate enough mesoderm, and show severe disruption in
morphogenesis of mesoderm-derived structures, in particular the notochord. The
cloning of the T gene has now allowed us to examine its expression pattern. We
report that T-gene expression occurs in both early stage mesoderm and its
epithelial progenitor, and then becomes restricted to the notochord. This
expression pattern correlates with the tissues affected in the T-gene mutant, and
indicates that the T gene has a direct role in the early events of mesoderm
formation and in the morphogenesis of the notochord.

DOI: 10.1038/343657a0 
PMID: 1689462  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Nature. 1990 Feb 8;343(6258):505-6.

An alternative to academic boycott.

Benatar SR.

KIE: A South African physician explores the moral validity of academic boycott as
a strategy to pressure the South African government to change its discriminatory 
policies. A well organized and widespread boycott can adversely affect higher
education, medical education, medical research, and health care. Benatar asks
whether academic sanctions can be justified within the traditional framework of
professional moral codes, and whether sanctions can be justified with any ethical
theory. He suggests that a more ethical approach to apartheid by the
international community would be to exert pressure through freely offered support
on a selectively targeted basis.
DOI: 10.1038/343505a0 
PMID: 11642754  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Nature. 1990 Feb 8;343(6258):572-4.

Stable expression of the bacterial neor gene in Leishmania enriettii.

Laban A(1), Tobin JF, Curotto de Lafaille MA, Wirth DF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Tropical Public Health, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115.

Molecular genetic studies in parasitic protozoa have been hindered by the lack of
methods for the introduction and expression of modified or foreign genes in these
organisms. Two recent reports described the transient expression of the bacterial
chloramphenicol acetyl transferase (CAT) gene under the control of
parasite-specific sequences. We now describe the stable expression of a
selectable marker, the gene for neomycin resistance (neor) in Leishmania
enriettii. A chimaeric gene containing the neor gene inserted between two
alpha-tubulin intergenic sequences was introduced into the cells and
drug-resistant L. enriettii were observed which stably expressed the neor gene.
One goal of this work was to analyse the sequences necessary for trans-splicing
of messenger RNA, as trypanosomatids have a novel process of RNA trans-splicing, 
described initially in Trypanosome brucei and subsequently in several other
trypanosomatids, including L. enriettii. Many trypanosomatid genes are arranged
in tandem arrays and the intergenic sequences contain both the splice acceptor
site for the addition of the spliced leader sequence and a putative
polyadenylation site. Messenger RNA isolated from several different neor L.
enrietti lines contained the spliced leader sequence joined to the neor gene at
the position of the splice acceptor site in the alpha-tubulin intergenic
sequence. The neor mRNA was also polyadenylated. Plasmid DNA is present within
the drug-resistant organisms and appears to be extrachromosomal. The development 
of these methods allows the functional analysis of sequences necessary for
trans-splicing.

DOI: 10.1038/343572a0 
PMID: 2300209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Nature. 1990 Feb 8;343(6258):570-2.

Coiled-coil fibrous domains mediate ligand binding by macrophage scavenger
receptor type II.

Rohrer L(1), Freeman M, Kodama T, Penman M, Krieger M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 02168.

The macrophage scavenger receptor, which has been implicated in the pathogenesis 
of atherosclerosis, has an unusually broad binding specificity. Ligands include
modified low-density lipoprotein and some polyanions (for example, poly(I) but
not poly(C]. The scavenger receptor type I (ref. 3) has three principal
extracellular domains that could participate in ligand binding: two fibrous
coiled-coil domains (alpha-helical coiled-coil domain IV and collagen-like domain
V), and the 110-amino-acid cysteine-rich C-terminal domain VI. We have cloned
complementary DNAs encoding a second scavenger receptor which we have termed type
II. This receptor is identical to the type I receptor, except that the
cysteine-rich domain is replaced by a six-residue C terminus. Despite this
truncation, the type II receptor mediates endocytosis of chemically modified
low-density lipoprotein with high affinity and specificity, similar to that of
the type I receptor. Therefore one or both of the extracellular fibrous domains
are responsible for the unusual ligand-binding specificity of the receptor.

DOI: 10.1038/343570a0 
PMID: 2300208  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Nature. 1990 Feb 8;343(6258):564-7.

Vasoactive intestinal peptide regulates mitosis, differentiation and survival of 
cultured sympathetic neuroblasts.

Pincus DW(1), DiCicco-Bloom EM, Black IB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Cornell University Medical College, New York, New
York 10021.

Although acute, millisecond-to-millisecond actions of neurotransmitters are well 
documented, diverse longer-term effects have been discovered only recently.
Emerging evidence indicates that these signals regulate a variety of neuronal
processes, from phenotypic expression to neurite outgrowth. Here we show that a
single putative transmitter, vasoactive intestinal peptide, can exert multiple,
long-term effects simultaneously: it stimulates mitosis, promotes neurite
outgrowth and enhances survival of sympathetic neuron precursors in culture. As
the peptide seems to be a normal presynaptic transmitter in the sympathetic
system, synaptic transmission may exert hitherto unexpected effects.

DOI: 10.1038/343564a0 
PMID: 2300207  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Nature. 1990 Feb 8;343(6258):562-4.

Localization of the malignant hyperthermia susceptibility locus to human
chromosome 19q12-13.2.

McCarthy TV(1), Healy JM, Heffron JJ, Lehane M, Deufel T, Lehmann-Horn F, Farrall
M, Johnson K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University College, Cork, Ireland.

Malignant hyperthermia (MH) is an inherited human skeletal muscle disorder and is
one of the main causes of death due to anaesthesia. The reported incidence of MH 
varies from 1 in 12,000 in children to 1 in 40,000 in adults. MH is triggered in 
susceptible people by all commonly used inhalational anaesthetics; it is
characterized by a profoundly accelerated muscle metabolism, contractures,
hyperthermia and tachycardia. Susceptibility to MH (MHS) is predicted by
contracture tests on muscle tissue obtained by biopsy. An almost identical
disorder known as porcine MH exists in pigs. The genetics of the porcine syndrome
have been extensively studied; the locus controlling expression of porcine MH is 
genetically linked to the glucose phosphate isomerase locus (GPI). In man, GPI
has been mapped to the q12-13.2 region of chromosome 19 (refs 10-12). We have now
investigated genetic linkage in several extended Irish pedigrees in which MHS is 
segregating as an autosomal dominant trait. Here we show linkage between MHS and 
DNA markers from the GPI region of human chromosome 19 with a maximum log
likelihood ratio (lod score) of 5.65 at the CYP2A locus. These results indicate
that human and porcine MH are most probably due to mutations in homologous genes,
and also provide a potentially accurate and noninvasive method of diagnosis for
MHS.

DOI: 10.1038/343562a0 
PMID: 2300206  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Nature. 1990 Feb 8;343(6258):554-5.

Resistance to positional noise in human vision.

Badcock DR(1), Wong TL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria,
Australia.

Human eyes are in constant and rapid motion even when observers try to maintain
steady fixation. Also, the visual system has a sluggish temporal response. In
combination, these two factors would be expected to blur stimuli and reduce
spatial sensitivity. But observers are able to detect a difference in separation 
of a few seconds of arc between two closely spaced parallel lines. Here we report
that even very large amounts of positional jitter of the line pair has minimal
impact on this ability. This result is in marked contrast to the deterioration
observed when targets are swept linearly across the retina, but is consistent
with a system that must ignore oculomotor jitter. To explain these results will
require a re-evaluation of current models of position coding in human vision.

DOI: 10.1038/343554a0 
PMID: 2300205  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Nature. 1990 Feb 8;343(6258):531-5.

Type I macrophage scavenger receptor contains alpha-helical and collagen-like
coiled coils.

Kodama T(1), Freeman M, Rohrer L, Zabrecky J, Matsudaira P, Krieger M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 02139.

The macrophage scavenger receptor is a trimeric membrane glycoprotein with
unusual ligand-binding properties which has been implicated in the development of
atherosclerosis. The trimeric structure of the bovine type I scavenger receptor, 
deduced by complementary DNA cloning, contains three extracellular C-terminal
cysteine-rich domains connected to the transmembrane domain by a long fibrous
stalk. This stalk structure, composed of an alpha-helical coiled coil and a
collagen-like triple helix, has not previously been observed in an integral
membrane protein.

DOI: 10.1038/343531a0 
PMID: 2300204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Nature. 1990 Feb 8;343(6258):575-6.

Active-site mutants altering the cooperativity of E. coli phosphofructokinase.

Berger SA(1), Evans PR.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, UK.

Crystal structures of the high- and low-activity states of the allosteric enzyme 
phosphofructokinase implicate three arginines in substrate binding, catalysis and
cooperativity. Arginines 162 and 243 reach into the active site from an adjacent 
subunit and interact with the cooperative substrate fructose 6-phosphate.
Mutation of these arginines to serine results in mutant enzymes with reduced
substrate binding and lowered cooperativity, but with little change in their
catalytic ability (kcat). Arg 72 bridges the two substrates fructose 6-phosphate 
and ATP, and interacts with the 1-phosphate of the product fructose
1,6-biphosphate. Mutation of this residue to serine reduces the catalytic
activity, cooperativity and binding of fructose 6-phosphate and fructose
1,6-bisphosphate. In the reverse reaction, the kinetics of wild-type and the Ser 
72 mutant with respect to fructose 1,6-bisphosphate are hyperbolic, whereas those
of the Ser 162 and Ser 243 mutants are sigmoidal. These results show that each of
the three arginines contributes to cooperativity and to the transmission of
allosteric signals between the four subunit of the enzyme.

DOI: 10.1038/343575a0 
PMID: 2137204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Nature. 1990 Feb 8;343(6258):558-9.

Paternal origin of new mutations in von Recklinghausen neurofibromatosis.

Jadayel D(1), Fain P, Upadhyaya M, Ponder MA, Huson SM, Carey J, Fryer A, Mathew 
CG, Barker DF, Ponder BA.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Human Cancer Genetics, Institute of Cancer Research, Sutton,
Surrey, UK.

Von Recklinghausen neurofibromatosis (NF-1) is a common autosomal dominant
disorder. The estimated new mutation rate (1 x 10(-4] is one of the highest for a
human disorder. Here we report that in 12 of 14 families we have analysed, the
new mutation is of paternal origin. This result is similar to that recently
obtained for retinoblastoma. In other genetic disorders that show a bias towards 
paternal origin of new mutations, there is a marked increase in the incidence of 
mutations with paternal age, consistent with the mutations arising from
replication errors in mitosis of spermatogonial stem cells. In retinoblastoma and
NF-1, however, such paternal age effects are slight or absent. The mechanism or
timing of germline mutation could therefore be different in the two cases.

DOI: 10.1038/343558a0 
PMID: 2105472  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Nature. 1990 Feb 8;343(6258):536-40.

Feedback of the Drosophila period gene product on circadian cycling of its
messenger RNA levels.

Hardin PE(1), Hall JC, Rosbash M.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Brandeis University, Waltham, Massachusetts
02254.

Mutations in the period (per) gene of Drosophila melanogaster affect both
circadian and ultradian rhythms. Levels of per gene product undergo circadian
oscillation, and it is now shown that there is an underlying oscillation in the
level of per RNA. The observations indicate that the cycling of per-encoded
protein could result from per RNA cycling, and that there is a feedback loop
through which the activity of per-encoded protein causes cycling of its own RNA.

DOI: 10.1038/343536a0 
PMID: 2105471  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Nature. 1990 Feb 8;343(6258):559-61.

Ryanodine receptor gene is a candidate for predisposition to malignant
hyperthermia.

MacLennan DH(1), Duff C, Zorzato F, Fujii J, Phillips M, Korneluk RG, Frodis W,
Britt BA, Worton RG.

Author information: 
(1)Banting and Best Department of Medical Research, Charles H. Best Institute,
University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Malignant hyperthermia (MH) is a potentially lethal condition in which sustained 
muscle contracture, with attendant hypercatabolic reactions and elevation in body
temperature, are triggered by commonly used inhalational anaesthetics and
skeletal muscle relaxants. In humans, the trait is usually inherited in an
autosomal dominant fashion, but in halothane-sensitive pigs with a similar
phenotype, inheritance of the disease is autosomal recessive or co-dominant. A
simple and accurate non-invasive test for the gene is not available and
predisposition to the disease is currently determined through a halothane- and/or
caffeine-induced contracture test on a skeletal muscle biopsy. Because Ca2+ is
the chief regulator of muscle contraction and metabolism, the primary defect in
MH is believed to lie in Ca2+ regulation. Indeed, several studies indicate a
defect in the Ca2+ release channel of the sarcoplasmic reticulum, making it a
prime candidate for the altered gene product in predisposed individuals. We have 
recently cloned complementary DNA and genomic DNA encoding the human ryanodine
receptor (the Ca2(+)-release channel of the sarcoplasmic reticulum) and mapped
the ryanodine receptor gene (RYR) to region q13.1 of human chromosome 19 (ref.
14), in close proximity to genetic markers that have been shown to map near the
MH susceptibility locus in humans and the halothane-sensitive gene in pigs. As a 
more definitive test of whether the RYR gene is a candidate gene for the human MH
phenotype, we have carried out a linkage study with MH families to determine
whether the MH phenotype segregates with chromosome 19q markers, including
markers in the RYR gene. Co-segregation of MH with RYR markers, resulting in a
lod score of 4.20 at a linkage distance of zero centimorgans, indicates that MH
is likely to be caused by mutations in the RYR gene.

DOI: 10.1038/343559a0 
PMID: 1967823  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Nature. 1990 Feb 8;343(6258):555-7.

Hepatitis B virus integration in a cyclin A gene in a hepatocellular carcinoma.

Wang J(1), Chenivesse X, Henglein B, Bréchot C.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U75, CHU-Necker, Paris, France.

Hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA frequently integrates into the genome of human
primary liver cancer cells, but the significance of this integration in liver
carcinogenesis is still unclear. Here we report the cloning of a single HBV
integration site in a human hepatocellular carcinoma at an early stage of
development, and of its germline counterpart. The normal locus was found to be
transcribed into two polyadenylated messenger RNA species of 1.8 and 2.7
kilobases. We have isolated a complementary DNA clone from a normal adult human
liver cDNA library which has an open reading frame with a coding capacity for a
protein of 432 amino acids and relative molecular mass 48,536. The strong
homology of the C-terminal half of the protein to the A-type cyclins of clam and 
Drosophila identifies it as a human cyclin A. The cyclin A gene has several
exons, and the HBV integration occurs within an intron. As cyclins are important 
in the control of cell division, the disruption of a cyclin A gene by viral
insertion might contribute to tumorigenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/343555a0 
PMID: 1967822  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Nature. 1990 Feb 1;343(6257):484-7.

RNA bulges and the helical periodicity of double-stranded RNA.

Bhattacharyya A(1), Murchie AI, Lilley DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, The University, Dundee, UK.

RNA molecules typically exhibit extensive secondary structure, including
double-stranded duplex, hairpins, internal loops, bulged bases and pseudoknotted 
structures (reviewed in refs 3 and 4). This is intimately connected with
biological function, including splicing reactions and ribozyme activity. The
formation of RNA-DNA hybrids is important in the transcription of DNA, reverse
transcription of viral RNA, and DNA replication. Bulged bases in RNA helices are 
potentially significant in RNA folding and in providing sites for specific
protein-RNA interactions, as illustrated by TFIIIA of Xenopus and the coat
protein of phage R17. Most information about the structure of RNA derives from
fibre diffraction or crystallography of natural molecules, notably transfer RNA, 
but until recently there have been few systematic studies of RNA structure using 
designed sequences. We have used gel electrophoresis to investigate the
properties of bulged bases in both RNA and RNA-DNA depending on the number and
types of bases in the bulge and its position in the fragment. By varying the
spacing between two bulge-induced kinks, we have measured the periodicity of RNA 
and RNA-DNA helices in solution.

DOI: 10.1038/343484a0 
PMID: 2300191  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Nature. 1990 Feb 1;343(6257):476-9.

Localization of VP4 neutralization sites in rotavirus by three-dimensional
cryo-electron microscopy.

Prasad BV(1), Burns JW, Marietta E, Estes MK, Chiu W.

Author information: 
(1)Verna and Marrs McLean Department of Biochemistry, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, Texas 77030.

Three-dimensional structures of several spherical viruses have been determined by
electron microscopy and X-ray crystallography. We report here the first
three-dimensional structure of the complex between an intact virus and Fab
fragments of a neutralizing monoclonal antibody. The antibody is against VP4, one
of the two outer capsid proteins of rotaviruses. These large icosahedral viruses 
cause gastroenteritis in children and young animals and account for over a
million human deaths annually. VP4 in these viruses has been implicated in
several important functions such as cell penetration, haemagglutination,
neutralization and virulence. Here we demonstrate that the surface spikes on
rotavirus particles are made up of VP4. Antigenic sites are located near the
distal ends of the spikes and two Fab fragments bind to each of the sixty spikes.
The mass of the spike indicates that it is a dimer of VP4. The bilobed structure 
at the distal end of the spike may be involved in both the attachment to the cell
and in viral penetration. A novel feature in the virus-Fab complex is the
structural difference between the two chemically equivalent Fab fragments on each
spike, which could be indicative of variations in the Fab elbow angles.

DOI: 10.1038/343476a0 
PMID: 2153941  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Nature. 1990 Feb 1;343(6257):474-6.

Attenuation of Mengo virus through genetic engineering of the 5' noncoding
poly(C) tract.

Duke GM(1), Osorio JE, Palmenberg AC.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Molecular Virology, University of Wisconsin, Madison 53706.

The murine cardioviruses, such as the Mengo and encephalomyocarditis viruses, and
the bovine aphthoviruses, such as foot-and-mouth disease virus, are distinguished
among positive-strand RNA viruses by the presence of long homopolymeric poly(C)
tracts within their 5' noncoding sequences. Although the specific lengths (60-350
bases) and sequence discontinuities (for example, uridine residues) that
sometimes disrupt the homopolymer have served to characterize natural viral
isolates, the biological function of the poly(C) region has never been clear. We 
now report that complementary DNA-mediated truncation of the Mengo virus poly(C) 
tract dramatically attenuates the pathogenicity of the virus in mice. Animals
injected with viruses with short tracts not only survived inoculation of up to 50
micrograms live virus (10(11) plaque-forming units) but consistently produced
high titres of neutralizing antibodies, which conferred long-term immunogenic
protection from (normally) lethal virus challenge. We propose that analogous
synthetic strains of foot and mouth disease virus could serve as the basis for
new attenuated vaccines.

DOI: 10.1038/343474a0 
PMID: 2153940  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Nature. 1990 Feb 1;343(6257):464-6.

A threshold effect of the major isoforms of NCAM on neurite outgrowth.

Doherty P(1), Fruns M, Seaton P, Dickson G, Barton CH, Sears TA, Walsh FS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurochemistry, Institute of Neurology, London, UK.

Interactions between recognition molecules on the surface of neuronal growth
cones and guidance cues present in the local cellular environment are thought to 
account for the growth of neurites in the highly stereospecific manner that
contributes to correct target cell innervation. In vitro assays have been used to
identify candidate molecular components of this system, either directly by
demonstrating their ability to promote neurite outgrowth, or indirectly by the
ability of specific antibodies to inhibit neurite outgrowth. The role of the
neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) in pathway finding is not fully understood. 
Some immunological studies support a positive role; others do not, and it has
been reported that purified NCAM does not support neurite outgrowth. We have
previously shown that an arbitrary biochemical index of neurite outgrowth, the
relative level of immunoreactive neurofilament protein, is increased when human
and rat dorsal root ganglion neurons are cultured on monolayers of cells
expressing transfected human NCAM. But, the complexity of growth precluded a
simple morphological analysis and we did not determine the 'dose-response'
relationship between NCAM expression and neuronal response. Here, we report on
the morphology of rat cerebellar neurons cultured on monolayers of 3T3 cells
transfected with complementary DNAs encoding all of the main NCAM isoforms found 
in cells such as astrocytes, Schwann cells and skeletal muscle. The data indicate
that both transmembrane and glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol linked NCAM isoforms
are potent substrates for neurite extension. A critical threshold value of NCAM
expression is required for increased neurite outgrowth. Above this threshold,
small increases in NCAM induce substantial increases in neurite outgrowth.

DOI: 10.1038/343464a0 
PMID: 2153939  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Nature. 1990 Feb 1;343(6257):457-61.

The preS2/S region of integrated hepatitis B virus DNA encodes a transcriptional 
transactivator.

Kekulé AS(1), Lauer U, Meyer M, Caselmann WH, Hofschneider PH, Koshy R.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Biochemie, Martinsried, FRG.

Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is regarded as the main aetiologic factor in the
development of human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), one of the most frequent
fatal malignancies worldwide. Detection of integrated HBV sequences in the
cellular DNA of almost all HCCs studied, and the recent finding that the
integrated HBV open reading frame (orf) X encodes a transactivating activity,
supports the notion that integrated HBV DNA could contribute to liver
carcinogenesis by activation of cellular genes in trans. But not all HCCs seem to
harbour a functional orf X. We report here that 3'-truncated preS2/S sequences in
integrated HBV DNA of liver cell carcinomas encode a so far unidentified
transcriptional trans-activation activity. This activity is also produced by an
artificially 3'-truncated preS2/S gene of the wild-type HBV genome. Besides the
simian virus 40 promoter of the reporter plasmid pSV2CAT, the promoter of the
human c-myc oncogene can also be activated. These results, taken together with
the fact that preS/S is the only HBV gene found to be integrated in almost every 
HBV-related HCC analysed so far, indicate that trans-activation by integrated
preS2/S sequences is a possible mechanism for HBV-associated oncogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/343457a0 
PMID: 2153938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Nature. 1990 Feb 1;343(6257):437-41.

Factor required for mammalian spliceosome assembly is localized to discrete
regions in the nucleus.

Fu XD(1), Maniatis T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138.

A monoclonal antibody raised against mammalian spliceosomes specifically
recognizes a non-snRNP factor required for spliceosome assembly. This splicing
factor is highly concentrated in discrete regions within the nucleus, in a
pattern that is a distinct subset of that seen with anti-snRNP antibodies. These 
observations are evidence that spliceosome assembly could be compartmentalized
within the nucleus.

DOI: 10.1038/343437a0 
PMID: 2137203  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Nature. 1990 Feb 1;343(6257):461-3.

Inhibition of neurite polarity by tau antisense oligonucleotides in primary
cerebellar neurons.

Caceres A(1), Kosik KS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

Neurons in culture can have fundamentally distinct morphologies which permit
their cytological identification and the recognition of their neurites as axons
or dendrites. Microtubules may have a role in determining morphology by the
selective stabilization of spatially distinct microtubule subsets. The plasticity
of a neurite correlates inversely with the stability of its component
microtubules: microtubules in growth cones are very dynamic, and in initial
neurites there is continuous incorporation of labelled subunits, whereas in
mature neurites, microtubules are highly stabilized. The binding of
microtubule-associated proteins to the microtubules very probably contributes to 
this stability. Cerebellar neurons in dissociated culture initially extend
exploratory neurites and, after a relatively constant interval, become polarized.
Polarity becomes evident when a single neurite exceeds the others in length.
These stable neurites cease to undergo the retractions and extensions
characteristic of initial neurites and assume many features of axons and
dendrites. We have now studied the role of the neuronal microtubule-associate
protein tau in neurite polarization by selectively inhibiting tau expression by
the addition of antisense oligonucleotides to the culture media. Although the
extension of initial exploratory neurites occurred normally, neurite asymmetry
was inhibited by the failure to elaborate an axon.

DOI: 10.1038/343461a0 
PMID: 2105469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Nature. 1990 Feb 1;343(6257):467-70.

Binding of a Drosophila POU-domain protein to a sequence element regulating gene 
expression in specific dopaminergic neurons.

Johnson WA(1), Hirsh J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115.

Several genes have been identified that affect the specification of unique
neuronal identities during development of the Drosophila central nervous system. 
At least two of these genes, fushi tarazu (ftz) and even-skipped (eve) share a
common structural motif, the homoeobox, which encodes a sequence-specific
DNA-binding domain (homoeodomain). A family of related proteins has been recently
characterized in mammals and nematodes that contain a diverged homoedomain as
part of a structure referred to as a POU domain. Mammalian genes encoding POU
domains have region-specific patterns of expression in the central nervous
system, indicating a potential role for them in the regulation of neuronal
development. The nematode POU-domain gene, unc-86, is involved in the
determination of neuroblast lineages leading to serotonergic and dopaminergic
neurons. We have now identified a Drosophila gene, Cfla, encoding a
sequence-specific DNA-binding protein containing a highly conserved POU domain.
The Cfla gene product binds to a DNA element required for expression of the dopa 
decarboxylase gene (Ddc) in selected dopaminergic neurons, implying that it
functions as a neuron-specific transcription factor.

DOI: 10.1038/343467a0 
PMID: 1967821  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Nature. 1990 Feb 1;343(6257):425-30.

Regulation of the mevalonate pathway.

Goldstein JL(1), Brown MS.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Molecular Genetics, University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, Dallas 75235.

The mevalonate pathway produces isoprenoids that are vital for diverse cellular
functions, ranging from cholesterol synthesis to growth control. Several
mechanisms for feedback regulation of low-density-lipoprotein receptors and of
two enzymes involved in mevalonate biosynthesis ensure the production of
sufficient mevalonate for several end-products. Manipulation of this regulatory
system could be useful in treating certain forms of cancer as well as heart
disease.

DOI: 10.1038/343425a0 
PMID: 1967820  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Nature. 1990 Feb 1;343(6257):482-4.

Uncoupling of the synthesis of edited and unedited COIII RNA in Trypanosoma
brucei.

Volloch V(1), Schweitzer B, Rits S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Metabolic Regulation, Boston Biomedical Research Institute,
Massachusetts 02114.

RNA editing, a novel and unexpected type of information processing, was first
demonstrated in the kinetoplasts of certain protozoans. It is a remarkable
phenomenon: certain species of messenger RNA have nucleotide sequences that
differ greatly from the sequences of the genes from which they are presumably
transcribed. The differences are usually due to addition of uridylate residues,
but occasionally also to their deletion. The most spectacular case of editing
known occurs in the mRNA of the mitochondrial gene for subunit III of cytochrome 
oxidase (COIII) in Trypanosoma brucei. This mRNA is twice the length of its gene 
owing to the addition of several hundred uridylate residues and a few deletions, 
spread over the entire length of the RNA molecule. Whereas unedited RNA
molecules, the nucleotide sequences of which correspond to the genomic sequence, 
have been isolated, no DNA template corresponding to the edited RNA sequence has 
been detected in either the mitochondrial or nuclear genome. It was suggested,
therefore, that unedited mRNAs are transcribed from mitochondrial DNA and then
edited post-transcriptionally by endonucleolytic cleavage of the primary
transcript at specific sites, followed by insertion or deletion of uridylate
residues and religation. We have now examined the general nature of the RNA
editing process to determine whether it involves the insertion of nucleotide
residues into pre-existing molecules or the continuous de novo synthesis of
edited mRNA. The results of our experiments rule out an insertion mechanism and
strongly indicate that edited mRNA is synthesized as a unit.

DOI: 10.1038/343482a0 
PMID: 1689017  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Nature. 1990 Feb 1;343(6257):479-82.

Turnover of fluorescently labelled tubulin and actin in the axon.

Okabe S(1), Hirokawa N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, School of Medicine, University of
Tokyo, Japan.

The cytoskeleton has an important role in the generation and maintenance of the
structure of the axon. Microtubules, neurofilaments and actin, together with
various kinds of associated proteins, form highly organized dynamic cytoskeletal 
structures. Because tubulin and actin molecules are essential cytoskeletal
components and are transported down the axon, it is important to understand their
dynamic behaviour within the axon. Although previous pulse-labelling studies have
indicated that the axonal cytoskeleton is a static complex travelling down the
axon, this view has been challenged by the results of several recent experiments.
We have now addressed this question by analysing the recovery of fluorescence
after photobleaching fluorescent analogues of tubulin and actin in the axons of
cultured neurons. We did not observe movement or spreading of bleached zones
along the axon, both in neurons injected with fluorescein-labelled tubulin and
actin. All bleached zones recovered their fluorescence gradually, however,
indicating that microtubules and actin filaments are not static polymers moving
forward within the axon, but are dynamic structures that continue to assemble
along the length of the axon.

DOI: 10.1038/343479a0 
PMID: 1689016  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Nature. 1990 Feb 1;343(6257):470-4.

Potent and selective inhibition of HIV-1 replication in vitro by a novel series
of TIBO derivatives.

Pauwels R(1), Andries K, Desmyter J, Schols D, Kukla MJ, Breslin HJ, Raeymaeckers
A, Van Gelder J, Woestenborghs R, Heykants J, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Rega Institute for Medical Research, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Belgium.

In the search for compounds active against human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), we
have found that members of a novel series of
tetrahydro-imidazo[4,5,1-jk][1,4]-benzodiazepine-2(1H)-one and -thione (TIBO)
derivatives inhibit the replication of HIV-1, the main aetiological agent of
AIDS, but not of HIV-2, or of any other DNA or RNA viruses. In five cell systems,
HIV-1 is inhibited by TIBO derivatives in nanomolar amounts, which are
10(4)-10(5) times lower than the cytotoxic concentration. The unprecedented
specificity of these compounds may be due to an interaction with a reverse
transcriptase-associated process. By contrast, AZT
(3'-azido-2',3'-dideoxythymidine), which is used for the treatment of AIDS, and
DDC (2',3'-dideoxycytidine) and DDI (2',3'-dideoxyinosine), whose clinical
application is being assessed, inhibit both HIV-1 and HIV-2 at concentrations
that, depending on the cell systems, are 2 to 4 orders of magnitude below their
cytotoxic concentration. TIBO-derivatives are new chemicals unrelated to any
other antiviral agents. We believe that they are the most specific and potent
inhibitors of HIV-1 replication studied so far.

DOI: 10.1038/343470a0 
PMID: 1689015  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Nature. 1990 Jan 25;343(6256):362-3.

Saccadic oscillations facilitate ocular perfusion from the avian pecten.

Pettigrew JD(1), Wallman J, Wildsoet CF.

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch and Hearing Research Centre, University of Queensland, St. Lucia
4067, Australia.

THE evolution of the eye is constrained by two conflicting requirements--good
vascular perfusion of the retina, and an optical path through the retina that is 
unobstructed by blood vessels. Birds are interesting in that they have higher
metabolic rates and thicker retinas than mammals, but have no retinal blood
vessels. Nutrients and oxygen must thus reach the neurons of the inner retina
either from the choroid through 300 micron of metabolically very active retina,
or from the pecten, a pleated vascular structure protruding from the head of the 
optic nerve into the vitreous chamber, and more than a centimetre away from some 
retinal neurons. Despite the diffusional distance involved, several lines of
evidence indicate that the pecten is the primary source of nutrients for the
inner retina: the presence of an oxygen gradient from pecten to retina, the large
surface area produced by macroscopic folds and by microscopic infoldings of the
luminal and external surfaces of the capillary endothelium, extrusion of
circulating fluorescein, high content of carbonic anhydrase and alkaline
phosphatase, and retinal impairments after pecten ablation. Another peculiarity
of birds, their saccadic oscillations, occur with a large cyclotor-sional
component during every saccadic eye movement. In different species, saccades,
which occur at intervals of 0.5-40 s, have up to 13 oscillations with frequencies
of 15-30 Hz and ampliá-tudes of about 10 degrees. Therefore, as much as 12% of
some birds' total viewing time may be subject to the image instability caused by 
the oscillations. Using fluorescein angiography, we show here that during every
saccade, the pecten acts as an agitator which propels perfusate towards the
central retina much more effectively than is observed during intersaccadic
intervals.

DOI: 10.1038/343362a0 
PMID: 14756148  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Nature. 1990 Jan 25;343(6256):387-9.

Nucleosome positioning can affect the function of a cis-acting DNA element in
vivo.

Simpson RT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cellular and Developmental Biology, NIDDK, National Institutes
of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

Positioning of nucleosomes has been proposed as one mechanism whereby the
activity of DNA is regulated: cis-acting elements located in linker DNA might be 
more accessible for interaction with trans-acting protein factors than they would
be if they were directly associated with histones in nucleosome core particles.
The eleven base pairs constituting the autonomously replicating sequence (ARS) of
the high-copy-number TRP1ARS1 plasmid of Saccharomyces cerevisiae are located in 
a linker region near the edge of a positioned nucleosome and form an origin of
replication. Could nucleosome positioning render the ARS accessible for
interaction with the proteins necessary for its function? I have tested this
hypothesis by making deletions and an insertion to move the ARS into the
nucleosome DNA and then examining the effects on ARS function. There is a marked 
decrease in copy number when the ARS is moved into the central DNA region of the 
nucleosome core particle, a region known to differ in structure and stability
from the peripheral segments of nucleosome DNA.

DOI: 10.1038/343387a0 
PMID: 2405281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Nature. 1990 Jan 25;343(6256):372-5.

Coexpression of two distinct muscle acetylcholine receptor alpha-subunits during 
development.

Hartman DS(1), Claudio T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06511.

The nicotinic acetylcholine receptor is a ligand-gated channel that mediates
signalling at the vertebrate neuromuscular junction. It is a pentameric complex
of four different subunits, assembled with a stoichiometry of alpha 2 beta gamma 
delta. Muscle-like alpha-subunits have been cloned from Torpedo, mouse, calf,
rat, chicken, human and Xenopus, and only a single alpha-subunit complementary
DNA from each species has been detected. We report here the cloning and
characterization of a second muscle alpha-subunit cDNA from Xenopus, and show
that this and a previously reported Xenopus alpha-subunit cDNA are encoded by
distinct genes. The novel alpha-subunit reported here is expressed uniquely in
oocytes; but both types of alpha-subunit are coexpressed throughout muscle
development. This latter observation indicates that the expression of these two
alpha-subunits is different from a previously reported developmental
'subunit-switch' mechanism used to generate channel diversity.

DOI: 10.1038/343372a0 
PMID: 2300185  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Nature. 1990 Jan 25;343(6256):325-30.

Holography in artificial neural networks.

Psaltis D(1), Brady D, Gu XG, Lin S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrical Engineering, California Institute of Technology,
Pasadena 91125.

The dense interconnections that characterize neural networks are most readily
implemented using optical signal processing. Optoelectronic 'neurons' fabricated 
from semiconducting materials can be connected by holographic images recorded in 
photorefractive crystals. Processes such as learning can be demonstrated using
holographic optical neural networks.

DOI: 10.1038/343325a0 
PMID: 2300184  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Nature. 1990 Jan 25;343(6256):375-7.

Modulation of ATP-sensitive K+ channels in skeletal muscle by intracellular
protons.

Davies NW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Leicester, UK.

Since their discovery in cardiac muscle, ATP-sensitive K+(KATP) channels have
been identified in pancreatic beta-cells, skeletal muscle, smooth muscle and
central neurons. The activity of KATP channels is inhibited by the presence of
cytosolic ATP. Their wide distribution indicates that they could have important
physiological roles that may vary between tissues. In muscle cells the role of K+
channels is to control membrane excitability and the duration of the action
potential. In anoxic cardiac ventricular muscle KATP channels are believed to be 
responsible for shortening the action potential, and it has been proposed that a 
fall in ATP concentration during metabolic exhaustion increases the activity of
KATP channels in skeletal muscle, which may reduce excitability. But the
intracellular concentration of ATP in muscle is buffered by creatine phosphate to
5-10 mM, and changes little, even during sustained activity. This concentration
is much higher than the intracellular ATP concentration required to half block
the KATP-channel current in either cardiac muscle (0.1 mM) or skeletal muscle
(0.14 mM), indicating that the open-state probability of KATP channels is
normally very low in intact muscle. So it is likely that some additional means of
regulating the activity of KATP channels exists, such as the binding of
nucleotides other than ATP. Here I present evidence that a decrease in
intracellular pH (pHi) markedly reduces the inhibitory effect of ATP on these
channels in excised patches from frog skeletal muscle. Because sustained muscular
activity can decrease pHi by almost 1 unit in the range at which KATP channels
are most sensitive to pHi, it is likely that the activity of these channels in
skeletal muscle is regulated by intracellular protons under physiological
conditions.

DOI: 10.1038/343375a0 
PMID: 2153936  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Nature. 1990 Jan 25;343(6256):369-72.

Activation of NMDA receptors induces dephosphorylation of DARPP-32 in rat
striatal slices.

Halpain S(1), Girault JA, Greengard P.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience, Rockefeller University, New
York, New York 10021.

In the caudate-putamen the glutamatergic cortical input and the dopaminergic
nigrostriatal input have opposite effects on the firing rate of striatal neurons.
Although little is known of the biochemical mechanisms underlying this
antagonism, one action of dopamine is to stimulate the cyclic AMP-dependent
phosphorylation of DARPP-32 (dopamine and cAMP-regulated phospho-protein, of
relative molecular mass 32,000 (32K]. This phosphorylation converts DARPP-32 from
an inactive molecule into a potent inhibitor of protein phosphatase-1. Here we
show that activation of the NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) subclass of glutamate
receptors reverses the cAMP-stimulated phosphorylation of DARPP-32 in striatal
slices through NMDA-induced dephosphorylation of DARPP-32. Thus, the antagonistic
effects of dopamine and glutamate on the excitability of striatal neurons are
reflected in antagonistic effects of these neurotransmitters on the state of
phosphorylation of DARPP-32. Our results indicate that stimulation of NMDA
receptors leads to the activation of a neuronal protein phosphatase, presumably
the calcium-dependent phosphatase calcineurin, and show, in an intact cell
preparation, that signal transduction in the nervous system can be mediated by
protein dephosphorylation.

DOI: 10.1038/343369a0 
PMID: 2153935  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Nature. 1990 Jan 25;343(6256):364-6.

A point mutation of the rhodopsin gene in one form of retinitis pigmentosa.

Dryja TP(1), McGee TL, Reichel E, Hahn LB, Cowley GS, Yandell DW, Sandberg MA,
Berson EL.

Author information: 
(1)Howe Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts Eye
and Ear Infirmary, Boston 02114.

The gene for autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa in a large pedigree of Irish
origin has recently been found to be linked to an anonymous polymorphic sequence,
D3S47 (C17), from the long arm of chromosome 3. As the gene coding for rhodopsin 
is also assigned to the long arm of chromosome 3 and is expressed in rod
photoreceptors that are affected early in this blinding disease, we searched for 
a mutation of the rhodopsin gene in patients with autosomal dominant retinitis
pigmentosa. We found a C----A transversion in codon 23 (corresponding to a
proline----histidine substitution) in 17 of 148 unrelated patients and not in any
of 102 unaffected individuals. This result, coupled with the fact that the
proline normally present at position 23 is highly conserved among the opsins and 
related G-protein receptors, indicates that this mutation could be the cause of
one form of autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa.

DOI: 10.1038/343364a0 
PMID: 2137202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Nature. 1990 Jan 25;343(6256):341-6.

Primary structure and functional expression from complementary DNA of a human
interleukin-1 receptor antagonist.

Eisenberg SP(1), Evans RJ, Arend WP, Verderber E, Brewer MT, Hannum CH, Thompson 
RC.

Author information: 
(1)Synergen Inc., Boulder, Colorado 80301.

Human monocytes induced with adherent IgG secrete an interleukin-1 receptor
antagonist which could be important for the in vivo regulation of IL-1 activity. 
A complementary DNA for this molecule has been isolated from a human monocyte
library. Analysis of monocyte RNA indicates that the gene is transcriptionally
regulated. The sequence of the receptor antagonist indicates that it is
structurally similar to IL-1 beta. Expression of the cDNA in Escherichia coli
yields IL-1 receptor antagonist activity.

DOI: 10.1038/343341a0 
PMID: 2137201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Nature. 1990 Jan 25;343(6256):336-40.

Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist activity of a human interleukin-1 inhibitor.

Hannum CH(1), Wilcox CJ, Arend WP, Joslin FG, Dripps DJ, Heimdal PL, Armes LG,
Sommer A, Eisenberg SP, Thompson RC.

Author information: 
(1)Synergen Inc., Boulder, Colorado 80301.

Three interleukin-1 inhibitors have been purified to homogeneity from medium
conditioned by human monocytes. Partial sequence analysis and digestion with
N-glycanase indicate that these are glycosylation forms of a single protein. The 
protein binds to the interleukin-1 receptor but has no interleukin-1-like
activity, even at very high concentrations, and is therefore a pure receptor
antagonist.

DOI: 10.1038/343336a0 
PMID: 2137200  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Nature. 1990 Jan 25;343(6256):383-6.

Reverse self-splicing of group II intron RNAs in vitro.

Augustin S(1), Müller MW, Schweyen RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Mikrobiologie und Genetik, Universität Wien, Austria.

Group II introns, which are classed together on the basis of a conserved
secondary structure, are found in organellar genes of lower eukaryotes and
plants. Like introns in nuclear pre-messenger RNA, they are excised by a two-step
splicing reaction to generate branched circular RNAs, the so-called lariats. A
remarkable feature of group II introns is their self-splicing activity in vitro. 
In the absence of a nucleotide cofactor, the intron RNAs catalyse two successive 
transesterification reactions which lead to autocatalytic excision of the lariat 
IVS from pre-mRNA and concomitantly to exon ligation. By virtue of its ability to
specifically bind the 5' exon, the intron can also catalyse such reactions on
exogenous RNA substrates. This sequence-specific attachment could enable group II
introns to integrate into unrelated RNAs by reverse splicing, in a process
similar to that described for the self-splicing Tetrahymena group I intron. Here 
we report that group II lariat IVS can indeed reintegrate itself into an RNA
composed of the ligated exons in vitro. This occurs by a process of self-splicing
that completely reverses both transesterification steps of the forward reaction: 
it involves a transition of the 2'-5' phosphodiester bond of the lariat RNA into 
the 3'-5' bond of the reconstituted 5' splice junction.

DOI: 10.1038/343383a0 
PMID: 1689013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Nature. 1990 Jan 25;343(6256):381-3.

Immunological activity of covalently linked T-cell epitopes.

Ria F(1), Chan BM, Scherer MT, Smith JA, Gefter ML.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 02139.

Immune responses to proteins necessarily involve the recognition by T lymphocytes
of a peptide or peptides derived from a protein complexed with a major
histocompatibility antigen. The T-cell response of BALB/c mice to the
bacteriophage lambda cI repressor protein (residues 1-102) is directed
predominantly towards the epitope contained within a single peptide encompassing 
residues 12-26. Similar phenomena of immunodominance of a particular peptide have
also been observed in other protein systems. The mechanisms that have been
suggested to account for the focusing of the T-cell response are partial deletion
in the T-cell repertoire, biased antigen processing, and competition for binding 
to the presenting molecule, the major histocompatibility complex encoded class II
transplantation antigen. In a model system with a polypeptide containing two
synthetically linked immunologically active epitopes, we now demonstrate the
existence of a hierarchy between these epitopes, so that the immune response
elicited is directed mainly towards the more immunogenic epitope, whereas the
less immunogenic epitope elicits little or no T-cell reactivity. In addition, the
same hierarchy of dominance is also apparent when the polypeptide is used to
induce tolerance in the periphery in adult mice. The chimaeric peptide can induce
tolerance only towards the more immunogenic epitope. These experiments indicate
that the rules governing antigen processing and presentation that result in
T-cell activation are apparently the same as the rules that govern the processes 
resulting in the induction of tolerance.

DOI: 10.1038/343381a0 
PMID: 1689012  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Nature. 1990 Jan 25;343(6256):377-81.

Phosphorylation of GAP and GAP-associated proteins by transforming and mitogenic 
tyrosine kinases.

Ellis C(1), Moran M, McCormick F, Pawson T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular and Developmental Biology, Mount Sinai Hospital Research
Institute, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

The critical pathways through which protein-tyrosine kinases induce cellular
proliferation and malignant transformation are not well defined. As
microinjection of antibodies against p21ras can block the biological effects of
both normal and oncogenic tyrosine kinases, it is likely that they require
functional p21ras to transmit their mitogenic signals. No biochemical link has
been established, however, between tyrosine kinases and p21ras. We have
identified a non-catalytic domain of cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases, SH2, that
regulates the activity and specificity of the kinase domain. The presence of two 
adjacent SH2 domains in the p21ras GTPase-activating protein (GAP) indicates that
GAP might interact directly with tyrosine kinases. Here we show that GAP, and two
co-precipitating proteins of relative molecular masses 62,000 and 190,000 (p62
and p190) are phosphorylated on tyrosine in cells that have been transformed by
cytoplasmic and receptor-like tyrosine kinases. The phosphorylation of these
polypeptides correlates with transformation in cells expressing inducible forms
of the v-src or v-fps encoded tyrosine kinases. Furthermore, GAP, p62 and p190
are also rapidly phosphorylated on tyrosine in fibroblasts stimulated with
epidermal growth factor. Our results suggest a mechanism by which tyrosine
kinases might modify p21ras function, and implicate GAP and its associated
proteins as targets of both oncoproteins and normal growth factor receptors with 
tyrosine kinase activity. These data support the idea that SH2 sequences direct
the interactions of cytoplasmic proteins involved in signal transduction.

DOI: 10.1038/343377a0 
PMID: 1689011  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Nature. 1990 Jan 25;343(6256):366-9.

Possible role for salivary gland protein in taste reception indicated by homology
to lipophilic-ligand carrier proteins.

Schmale H(1), Holtgreve-Grez H, Christiansen H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Zellbiochemie und Klinische Neurobiologie, Universität Hamburg,
FRG.

Sensory transduction in taste and olfaction, the principal chemical senses, seems
to be mediated by membrane-associated proteins on the apical surfaces of the
respective receptor cells. The recent isolation and characterization of soluble
'odorant-binding proteins' secreted from the nasal glands of rat, cow and frog,
led to the hypothesis that these proteins function as necessary cofactors in
olfactory transduction by concentrating and delivering odorants to the receptors.
The primary reception of taste stimuli occurs in specialized neuroepithelial
receptor cells bundled in taste buds that are clustered in various types of
papillae in the lingual epithelium of the tongue. Small tubulo-alveolar salivary 
glands, the von Ebner's glands, are located beneath the circumvallate and the
foliate papillae. Their ducts open exclusively into the trough at the base of the
papillae. Taste buds located in the medial and lateral walls of the papillae open
with their taste pores into the trough and consequently are in direct contact
with the secretions of von Ebner's glands. Here we report the molecular cloning
and characterization of a protein of relative molecular mass 18,000 that is
highly expressed in von Ebner's glands. Like the odorant-binding proteins, this
protein shows similarity to members of a protein superfamily of hydrophobic
molecule transporters, indicating that pre-receptor events could also be
necessary for the concentration and delivery of sapid molecules in the gustatory 
system, and emphasizing the close relationship of taste and olfaction.

DOI: 10.1038/343366a0 
PMID: 1689010  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Nature. 1990 Jan 18;343(6255):254-6.

Evidence from carbon isotope measurements for diverse origins of sedimentary
hydrocarbons.

Freeman KH(1), Hayes JM, Trendel JM, Albrecht P.

Collaborators: Hayes JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Indiana University, Bloomington 47405-5101, USA.
(2)IN U, Bloomington, Dept Geo Sci and Chem

The organic matter found in sedimentary rocks must derive from many sources; not 
only from ancient primary producers but also from consumers and secondary
producers. In all of these organisms, isotope effects can affect the abundance
and distribution of 13C in metabolites. Here, by using an improved form of a
previously described technique in which the effluent of a gas chromatograph is
continuously analysed isotopically, we report evidence of the diverse origins of 
sedimentary organic matter. The record of 13C abundances in sedimentary carbonate
and total organic carbon can be interpreted in terms of variations in the global 
carbon cycle. Our results demonstrate, however, that isotope variations within
sedimentary organic mixtures substantially exceed those observed between samples 
of total organic carbon. Resolution of isotope variations at the molecular level 
offers a new and convenient means of refining views both of localized
palaeoenvironments and of control mechanisms within the global carbon cycle.

DOI: 10.1038/343254a0 
PMID: 11536462  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Nature. 1990 Jan 18;343(6255):251-4.

Ignition of global wildfires at the Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary.

Melosh HJ(1), Schneider NM, Zahnle KJ, Latham D.

Collaborators: Melosh HJ(2), Zahnle KJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Lunar and Planetary Laboratory, University of Arizona, Tucson 85721, USA.
(2)U AZ, Tucson
(3)ARC

An impressive amount of evidence supports the proposal of Alvarez et al. that the
Cretaceous era was ended abruptly by the impact of a comet or asteroid. The
recent discovery of an apparently global soot layer at the Cretaceous/Tertiary
boundary indicates that global wildfires were somehow ignited by the impact. Here
we show that the thermal radiation produced by the ballistic re-entry of ejecta
condensed from the vapour plume of the impact could have increased the global
radiation flux by factors of 50 to 150 times the solar input for periods ranging 
from one to several hours. This great increase in thermal radiation may have been
responsible for the ignition of global wildfires, as well as having deleterious
effects on unprotected animal life.

DOI: 10.1038/343251a0 
PMID: 11536461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Nature. 1990 Jan 18;343(6255):288-90.

Homology of a yeast actin-binding protein to signal transduction proteins and
myosin-I.

Drubin DG(1), Mulholland J, Zhu ZM, Botstein D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 02139.

In yeast, the cortical actin cytoskeleton seems to specify sites of growth of the
cell surface. Because the actin-binding protein ABP1p is associated with the
cortical cytoskeleton of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, it might be involved in the
spatial organization of cell surface growth. ABP1p is localized to the cortical
cytoskeleton and its overproduction causes assembly of the cortical actin
cytoskeleton at inappropriate sites on the cell surface, resulting in delocalized
surface growth. We have now cloned and sequenced the gene encoding ABP1p. ABP1p
is a novel protein with a 50 amino-acid C-terminal domain that is very similar to
the SH3 domain in the non-catalytic region of nonreceptor tyrosine kinases
(including those encoded by the proto-oncogenes c-src and c-abl), in
phospholipase C gamma and in alpha-spectrin. We also identified an SH3-related
motif in the actin-binding tail domain of myosin-I. The identification of SH3
domains in a family of otherwise unrelated proteins that associate with the
membrane cytoskeleton indicates that this domain might serve to bring together
signal transduction proteins and their targets or regulators, or both, in the
membrane cytoskeleton.

DOI: 10.1038/343288a0 
PMID: 2405279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Nature. 1990 Jan 18;343(6255):233-8.

Regulation of microtubule dynamics by cdc2 protein kinase in cell-free extracts
of Xenopus eggs.

Verde F(1), Labbé JC, Dorée M, Karsenti E.

Author information: 
(1)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Cell Biology Program, Heidelberg, FRG.

Microtubules are involved in the transport of vesicles in interphase and of the
chromosomes during mitosis. Their arrangement and orientation in the cell are
therefore of prime importance and specific patterns are believed to be generated 
by modulations of the intrinsic dynamic instability of microtubules. Here it is
shown that the interphase-metaphase transition of microtubule arrays is under the
control of the cdc2 kinase that precisely regulates the dynamics and steady-state
length of microtubules.

DOI: 10.1038/343233a0 
PMID: 2405278  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Nature. 1990 Jan 18;343(6255):291-2.

Solid-phase protein sequence analysis.

Aebersold R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Research Centre, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

The solutions to many protein analytical problems require flexible chemistries at
a high sensitivity. Solid-phase sequence analysis is one way to eliminate
limitations inherent in current methods.

DOI: 10.1038/343291a0 
PMID: 2300175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Nature. 1990 Jan 18;343(6255):284-8.

Refined crystal structure of beta-lactamase from Citrobacter freundii indicates a
mechanism for beta-lactam hydrolysis.

Oefner C(1), D'Arcy A, Daly JJ, Gubernator K, Charnas RL, Heinze I, Hubschwerlen 
C, Winkler FK.

Author information: 
(1)Central Research Unit, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Co. Ltd, Basel, Switzerland.

Beta-Lactamases (EC 3.5.2.6, 'penicillinases') are a family of enzymes that
protect bacteria against the lethal effects of cell-wall synthesis of
penicillins, cephalosporins and related antibiotic agents, by hydrolysing the
beta-lactam antibiotics to biologically inactive compounds. Their production can,
therefore, greatly contribute to the clinical problem of antibiotic resistance.
Three classes of beta-lactamases--A, B and C--have been identified on the basis
of their amino-acid sequence; class B beta-lactamases are metalloenzymes, and are
clearly distinct from members of class A and C beta-lactamases, which both
contain an active-site serine residue involved in the formation of an acyl enzyme
with beta-lactam substrates during catalysis. It has been predicted that class C 
beta-lactamases share common structural features with D,D-carboxypeptidases and
class A beta-lactamases, and further, suggested that class A and class C
beta-lactamases have the same evolutionary origin as other beta-lactam target
enzymes. We report here the refined three-dimensional structure of the class C
beta-lactamase from Citrobacter freundii at 2.0-A resolution and confirm the
predicted structural similarity. The refined structure of the acyl-enzyme formed 
with the monobactam inhibitor aztreonam at 2.5-A resolution defines the enzyme's 
active site and, along with molecular modelling, indicates a mechanism for
beta-lactam hydrolysis. This leads to the hypothesis that Tyr 150 functions as a 
general base during catalysis.

DOI: 10.1038/343284a0 
PMID: 2300174  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Nature. 1990 Jan 18;343(6255):282-4.

Requirement of a 5-lipoxygenase-activating protein for leukotriene synthesis.

Dixon RA(1), Diehl RE, Opas E, Rands E, Vickers PJ, Evans JF, Gillard JW, Miller 
DK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Merck Sharp & Dohme Research Laboratories,
West Point, Pennsylvania 19486.

Leukotrienes, the biologically active metabolites of arachidonic acid, have been 
implicated in a variety of inflammatory responses, including asthma, arthritis
and psoriasis. Recently a compound, MK-886, has been described that blocks the
synthesis of leukotrienes in intact activated leukocytes, but has little or no
effect on enzymes involved in leukotriene synthesis, including 5-lipoxygenase, in
cell-free systems. A membrane protein with a high affinity for MK-886 and
possibly representing the cellular target for MK-886 has been isolated from rat
and human leukocytes. Here, we report the isolation of a complementary DNA clone 
encoding the MK-886-binding protein. We also demonstrate that the expression of
both the MK-886-binding protein and 5-lipoxygenase is necessary for leukotriene
synthesis in intact cells. Because the MK-886-binding protein seems to play a
part in activating this enzyme in cells, it is termed the five-lipoxygenase
activating protein (FLAP).

DOI: 10.1038/343282a0 
PMID: 2300173  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Nature. 1990 Jan 18;343(6255):278-81.

Identification and isolation of a membrane protein necessary for leukotriene
production.

Miller DK(1), Gillard JW, Vickers PJ, Sadowski S, Léveillé C, Mancini JA,
Charleson P, Dixon RA, Ford-Hutchinson AW, Fortin R, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Merck Institute for
Therapeutic Research, Rahway, New Jersey 07065.

Several inflammatory diseases, including asthma, arthritis and psoriasis are
associated with the production of leukotrienes by neutrophils, mast cells and
macrophages. The initial enzymatic step in the formation of leukotrienes is the
oxidation of arachidonic acid by 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO) to leukotriene A4.
Osteosarcoma cells transfected with 5-LO express active enzyme in broken cell
preparations, but no leukotriene metabolites are produced by these cells when
stimulated with the calcium ionophore A23187, indicating that an additional
component is necessary for cellular 5-LO activity. A new class of indole
leukotriene inhibitor has been described that inhibits the formation of cellular 
leukotrienes but has no direct inhibitory effect on soluble 5-LO activity. We
have now used these potent agents to identify and isolate a novel membrane
protein of relative molecular mass 18,000 which is necessary for cellular
leukotriene synthesis.

DOI: 10.1038/343278a0 
PMID: 2300172  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Nature. 1990 Jan 18;343(6255):269-72.

Axonal regeneration in the rat spinal cord produced by an antibody against
myelin-associated neurite growth inhibitors.

Schnell L(1), Schwab ME.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Brain Research, University of Zurich, Switzerland.

After lesions in the differentiated central nervous system (CNS) of higher
vertebrates, interrupted fibre tracts do not regrow and elongate by more than an 
initial sprout of approximately 1 mm. Transplantations of pieces of peripheral
nerves into various parts of the CNS demonstrate the widespread capability of CNS
neurons to regenerate lesioned axons over long distances in a peripheral nerve
environment. CNS white matter, cultured oligodendrocytes (the myelin-producing
cells of the CNS), and CNS myelin itself, are strong inhibitors of neuron growth 
in culture, a property associated with defined myelin membrane proteins of
relative molecular mass (Mr) 35,000 (NI-35) and 250,000 (NI-250). We have now
intracerebrally applied the monoclonal antibody IN-1, which neutralizes the
inhibitory effect of both these proteins, to young rats by implanting
antibody-producing tumours. In 2-6-week-old rats we made complete transections of
the cortico-spinal tract, a major fibre tract of the spinal cord, the axons of
which originate in the motor and sensory neocortex. Previous studies have shown a
complete absence of cortico-spinal tract regeneration after the first postnatal
week in rats, and in adult hamsters and cats. In IN-1-treated rats, massive
sprouting occurred at the lesion site, and fine axons and fascicles could be
observed up to 7-11 mm caudal to the lesion within 2-3 weeks. In control rats, a 
similar sprouting reaction occurred, but the maximal distance of elongation
rarely exceeded 1 mm. These results demonstrate the capacity for CNS axons to
regenerate and elongate within differentiated CNS tissue after the neutralization
of myelin-associated neurite growth inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1038/343269a0 
PMID: 2300171  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Nature. 1990 Jan 18;343(6255):263-6.

A network that learns to recognize three-dimensional objects.

Poggio T(1), Edelman S.

Author information: 
(1)Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge 02139.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jan 18;343(6255):214-5.

The visual recognition of three-dimensional (3-D) objects on the basis of their
shape poses at least two difficult problems. First, there is the problem of
variable illumination, which can be addressed by working with relatively stable
features such as intensity edges rather than the raw intensity images. Second,
there is the problem of the initially unknown pose of the object relative to the 
viewer. In one approach to this problem, a hypothesis is first made about the
viewpoint, then the appearance of a model object from such a viewpoint is
computed and compared with the actual image. Such recognition schemes generally
employ 3-D models of objects, but the automatic learning of 3-D models is itself 
a difficult problem. To address this problem in computational vision, we have
developed a scheme, based on the theory of approximation of multivariate
functions, that learns from a small set of perspective views a function mapping
any viewpoint to a standard view. A network equivalent to this scheme will thus
'recognize' the object on which it was trained from any viewpoint.

DOI: 10.1038/343263a0 
PMID: 2300170  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Nature. 1990 Jan 18;343(6255):261-3.

Mammalian sex ratios and variation in costs of rearing sons and daughters.

Gomendio M(1), Clutton-Brock TH, Albon SD, Guinness FE, Simpson MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Sub-Department of Animal Behaviour, Madingley, Cambridge, UK.

In red deer, the sex ratio of calves at birth (calculated as the proportion of
calves born that are male) increases with the dominance rank of the mother,
whereas opposite trends exist in several populations of macaques and baboons.
Here we show that the subsequent survival and reproductive success of subordinate
female red deer is depressed more by rearing sons than by rearing daughters,
whereas the subsequent fitness of dominant females is unaffected by the sex of
their present offspring. By contrast, among subordinate female macaques, the
rearing of daughters has greater costs to the mother's subsequent fitness than
does the rearing of sons, although again, no difference in the costs of rearing
sons and daughters is found among dominant mothers. These findings indicate that 
both differences in the relative fitness of sons and daughters and differences in
the relative costs of rearing male and female offspring can favour variation in
the sex ratio.

DOI: 10.1038/343261a0 
PMID: 2300169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Nature. 1990 Jan 18;343(6255):266-9.

A second molecular form of D2 dopamine receptor in rat and bovine caudate
nucleus.

Chio CL(1), Hess GF, Graham RS, Huff RM.

Author information: 
(1)Upjohn Co., Kalamazoo, Michigan 49001.

Overexpression of the D2 dopamine receptor has been proposed to be part of the
pathology of schizophrenia. The isolation of a D2 dopamine receptor clone has
assisted the molecular characterization of D2 receptor. We have now isolated an
identical rat clone along with two other clones--a second related rat clone
(RD-2in) and a homologous bovine clone (BD-2in), both of which contain an insert 
encoding an additional 29 amino acids relative to the original rat clone (RD-2o).
All three clones encode D2 receptor binding sites when expressed in COS-7 cells. 
The amino-acid insert encoded by D-2in lies in the domain of the receptor
believed to interact with the GTP-binding proteins (G proteins) of various signal
transduction pathways. By using oligonucleotide probes specific for either D-2o
or D-2in RNA transcripts, we have found that the level of expression of the
D-2in-encoded form of the receptor is seven times that of the D-2o form in the
caudate nucleus, the richest brain source of D2 receptors.

DOI: 10.1038/343266a0 
PMID: 2137198  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Nature. 1990 Jan 18;343(6255):275-8.

Identification of classical minor histocompatibility antigen as cell-derived
peptide.

Wallny HJ(1), Rammensee HG.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck Institut für Biologie, Abteilung Immunogenetik, Tübingen, FRG.

Histocompatibility antigens expressed on tissue grafted between individuals are
recognized by host T cells, which reject the graft. The major histocompatibility 
complex (MHC) antigens have been identified on the molecular level, whereas the
molecules representing the remaining ones, the minor histocompatibility antigens,
are unknown, apart from some exceptions. The cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL)
response against minor histocompatibility antigens shares many aspects with that 
against virus-infected cells. Virus-specific CTL recognize peptides derived from 
viral proteins produced in the infected cell. These peptides are presented by MHC
class I molecules, as indicated by functional and crystallographic data. By
analogy, minor histocompatibility antigens have been postulated to be peptides
derived from normal cellular proteins presented by MHC class I molecules. Here we
report that peptides derived from normal cellular proteins can indeed be
recognized by CTL raised in the classical minor histoincompatible mouse strain
combination, C57BL/6 against BALB.B. Thus, we have proven the above postulate,
and isolated one of the minor histocompatibility molecules elusive for several
decades.

DOI: 10.1038/343275a0 
PMID: 1689009  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Nature. 1990 Jan 18;343(6255):273-5.

Origin of cells giving rise to mesoderm and endoderm in chick embryo.

Stern CD(1), Canning DR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Anatomy, Oxford, UK.

In amniotes, all of the tissues of the adult arise from the epiblast, one of the 
two layers of cells present in the early embryo; the mesoderm and gut endoderm
arise from an epiblast-derived structure known as the primitive streak. The
monoclonal antibody HNK-1 recognizes the cells of the primitive streak in the
chick embryo. Before streak formation, HNK-1 identifies cells that are randomly
distributed within the epiblast. We have now used two novel ways to study cell
lineage and commitment to show that the epiblast of the early chick embryo
contains two distinct populations of cells with different developmental fates at 
a stage during which 'mesodermal induction' is believed to occur. One cell
population, recognized by monoclonal antibody HNK-1, is destined to form mesoderm
and endoderm; the rest of the epiblast is unable to give rise to mesoderm if this
population of cells is removed.

DOI: 10.1038/343273a0 
PMID: 1689008  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Nature. 1990 Jan 11;343(6254):180-2.

Very mild muscular dystrophy associated with the deletion of 46% of dystrophin.

England SB(1), Nicholson LV, Johnson MA, Forrest SM, Love DR, Zubrzycka-Gaarn EE,
Bulman DE, Harris JB, Davies KE.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Medicine, John Radcliffe Hospital, Headington, Oxford, 
UK.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) and Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD), a much
milder form of the disease where the age of onset can sometimes be as late as the
third or fourth decade of life, are caused by mutations in the same X-linked
gene, a 14 kilobase (kb) transcript which is spread over more than 2 megabases of
the human X chromosome. The corresponding protein, dystrophin, has a relative
molecular mass of 400,000. Most mutations causing DMD and BMD are deletions and
deletions associated with both phenotypes are observed throughout the gene
sequence. This observation led to the suggestion that DMD patients possess
deletions that disrupt the reading frame of the protein, whereas BMD patients
have deletions that retain the translational reading frame and enable the muscle 
cells to produce altered dystrophin products. This theory is supported by
immunoblotting studies, which show that DMD patients lack dystrophin in their
muscle cells or that dystrophin is present at very low levels, whereas BMD
patients produce a protein with reduced abundance or abnormal size. Here we
describe a deletion of the dystrophin gene in a family segregating for very mild 
BMD, one member of which was still ambulant at age 61 years, which removes a
central part of the dystrophin gene encompassing 5,106 base pairs of coding
sequence, almost half the coding information. Immunological analysis of muscle
from one of the patients demonstrates that this mutation results in the
production of a truncated polypeptide localized correctly in the muscle cell.
These results are particularly significant in the context of gene therapy which, 
if it is ever envisaged, would be facilitated by the replacement of the very
large dystrophin gene with a more manipulatable mini-gene construct.

DOI: 10.1038/343180a0 
PMID: 2404210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Nature. 1990 Jan 11;343(6254):133-9.

Co-localization of molecules involved in antigen processing and presentation in
an early endocytic compartment.

Guagliardi LE(1), Koppelman B, Blum JS, Marks MS, Cresswell P, Brodsky FM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, School of Pharmacy, University of California, San
Francisco 94143.

The pathways of intracellular traffic involved in antigen processing and
presentation have been defined by immunoelectron microscopy. The export pathway
for class II histocompatibility molecules and the antigen import pathway meet in 
a peripheral endocytic compartment having all the molecular machinery believed to
be required for antigen processing and presentation, including internalized
surface immunoglobulins, proteolytic enzymes and invariant chains. This
compartment defines a site where peptides from endocytosed antigen can bind class
II molecules en route to the cell surface for presentation to T cells.

DOI: 10.1038/343133a0 
PMID: 2404209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Nature. 1990 Jan 11;343(6254):190-2.

DNA trapping electrophoresis.

Ulanovsky L(1), Drouin G, Gilbert W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Developmental Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138.

Attempts to improve the size separation of single-stranded DNA in polyacrylamide 
gels by field-inversion gel electrophoresis (FIGE) have met with limited success.
Here we show that attaching a neutral globular protein, streptavidin, to one end 
of a single-stranded DNA molecule profoundly alters the DNA mobility pattern and 
increases the band separation manyfold within a size range controlled by voltage 
and pulse cycle. In constant field, short modified fragments are only slightly
retarded but long molecules are retarded dramatically above a 'threshold size' of
0.6 kilobases at 60 V per cm. At this voltage, molecules above a 1.2-kilobase
'cut-off' do not enter the gel. Both the threshold and the cut-off sizes decrease
as the voltage increases. In FIGE, the longer the reverse pulse, the larger the
modified fragments that enter the gel. We interpret these results as the trapping
by the gel matrix of the protein attached to the DNA. The probability of release 
then depends on the balance between the electric field and thermal motion: the
larger the DNA and the higher the voltage, the harder it is to release.

DOI: 10.1038/343190a0 
PMID: 2296311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Nature. 1990 Jan 11;343(6254):183-5.

A transgenic mouse model of sickle cell disorder.

Greaves DR(1), Fraser P, Vidal MA, Hedges MJ, Ropers D, Luzzatto L, Grosveld F.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Gene Structure and Expression, National Institute for Medical
Research, The Ridgeway, Mill Hill, London, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jan 11;343(6254):121.

A single base-pair mutation (beta s) in codon 6 of the human beta-globin gene,
causing a single amino-acid substitution, is the cause of sickle cell anaemia.
The mutant haemoglobin molecule, HbS, polymerizes when deoxygenated and causes
deformation of the erythrocytes to a characteristic 'sickled' shape. Sickling of 
cells in small vessels causes painful crises and other life-threatening
complications. Although the molecular basis for sickle cell anaemia has been
known for 30 years, no definitive treatment is available. An animal model of
sickle cell anaemia would not only allow a detailed analysis of the factors that 
initiate erythrocyte sickling in vivo and of the pathophysiology of the disease, 
but would also permit the development of novel approaches to the treatment of the
disease. By using the dominant control region sequences from the human
beta-globin locus, together with human alpha- and beta s-globin genes, we have
obtained three transgenic mice with HbS levels ranging from 10 to 80% of total
haemoglobin in their red cells. As observed in homozygous and heterozygous Hbs
patients, the erythrocytes of this mouse sickle readily on deoxygenation.
Irreversibly sickled cells, which are characteristic of sickle-cell patients
homozygous for beta s, are also observed in the peripheral blood of the mouse
with high levels of HbS.

DOI: 10.1038/343183a0 
PMID: 2296310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Nature. 1990 Jan 11;343(6254):173-7.

Specification of limb development in the Drosophila embryo by positional cues
from segmentation genes.

Cohen SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Lehrstuhl für Genetik, Universität München, FRG.

Limb development in Drosophila requires the activity of a proximo-distal
pattern-forming system, in addition to the antero-posterior and dorso-ventral
pattern-forming systems that subdivide the embryo. Several lines of genetic
evidence indicate that the Distal-less gene plays an important part in specifying
proximo-distal positional information. The Distal-less locus encodes a
homoeodomain-containing protein, which suggests that Distal-less may exert its
activity through differential regulation of subordinate genes. The spatially
restricted pattern of Distal-less expression allows direct visualization of the
limb primordia during early embryogenesis. Here I report that from their
inception, the leg primordia span the parasegment boundary. The segment polarity 
gene wingless seems to have a key part in defining the positions at which leg
primordia will develop along the antero-posterior axis of the embryo. This
analysis allows a direct molecular visualization of the compartments that
subdivide the limb primordia into discrete developmental domains.

DOI: 10.1038/343173a0 
PMID: 2296309  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Nature. 1990 Jan 11;343(6254):168-70.

No evidence for illegitimate young in monogamous and polygynous warblers.

Gyllensten UB(1), Jakobsson S, Temrin H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of California, Berkeley 94720.

In animals with internal fertilization, paternity is uncertain. In birds, the
occurrence of copulations outside the pair-bond has been documented in a number
of species, but the extent to which these result in illegitimate young is largely
unknown, and constitutes a major deficiency in our understanding of avian mating 
systems. The analysis of tandemly repeated sequences (minisatellites), has
enhanced our ability to make individual identifications and paternity
determinations. Here we describe the use of a bird minisatellite DNA probe in
assigning paternity in natural populations of the monogamous willow warbler
Phylloscopus trochilus and of the polygynous wood warbler Phylloscopus
sibilatrix. In both species this probe detects a multiple locus pattern and a
single locus that exhibits a variable number of tandem repeats. Although we
observed intrusions by non-resident males into the territories of paired males
and extra-pair copulations, no illegitimate offspring were detected among 176
young from 32 families of both species, implying that extra-pair copulations have
little or no genetic impact.

DOI: 10.1038/343168a0 
PMID: 2296308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


601. Nature. 1990 Jan 11;343(6254):165-8.

Does the brain know the physics of specular reflection?

Blake A(1), Bülthoff H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Engineering Science, University of Oxford, UK.

Images of artificial and natural scenes typically contain many highlights
generated by mirror-like reflection from glossy surfaces. Until recently,
computational models of visual processes have tended to regard highlights as
obscuring the structure of the underlying scene. The truth is that, on the
contrary, highlights are rich in local geometric information. Here we report that
the three-dimensional appearance of a highlight on a computer-simulated
stereoscopic curved surface affects observers' judgment of surface gloss. We also
show that the 3-D appearance of a highlight affects the perception of surface
curvature--that is, it can force an ambiguous convex-concave figure to change
state. We thus conclude that human visual analysis seems to employ a physical
model of the interaction of light with curved surfaces, a model firmly based on
ray optics and differential geometry.

DOI: 10.1038/343165a0 
PMID: 2296307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Nature. 1990 Jan 11;343(6254):161-3.

Occurrence of magnetic bacteria in soil.

Fassbinder JW(1), Stanjek H, Vali H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Allgemeine und Angewandte Geophysik,
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, FRG.

Enrichment of the ferrimagnetic minerals magnetite and maghemite is frequently
observed in the top layer of soil horizons. Although both inorganic and organic
processes are known to produce magnetite, magnetite in soils has been ascribed to
an inorganic origin. We report here the discovery of living magnetic bacteria,
similar to those found in salt- and fresh-water sediments, in the A horizon of a 
well developed soil profile in a typical meadow environment in southern Bavaria. 
The bacteria were detected in fresh samples using an optical microscope equipped 
with a rotating magnetic field and a volumetrically calibrated depression slide, 
permitting accurate counts of the volume density of the organisms. We suggest
that magnetic bacteria and their magnetofossils can contribute to the magnetic
properties of soils.

DOI: 10.1038/343161a0 
PMID: 2296306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Nature. 1990 Jan 11;343(6254):188-90.

Role for the nitrogenase MoFe protein alpha-subunit in FeMo-cofactor binding and 
catalysis.

Scott DJ(1), May HD, Newton WE, Brigle KE, Dean DR.

Author information: 
(1)Western Regional Research Center, USDA-ARS, Albany, California 94710.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jan 11;343(6254):116-7.

Two components constitute Mo-dependent nitrogenase (EC 1.18.6.1)--the Fe protein 
(a homodimer encoded by nifH) and the MoFe protein (an alpha 2 beta 2 tetramer
encoded by nifDK). The MoFe protein provides the substrate-binding site and
probably contains six prosthetic groups of two types--four Fe-S centres and two
Fe- and Mo-containing cofactors. To determine the distribution and catalytic
function of these metalloclusters, we and others are attempting to change the
catalytic and spectroscopic features of nitrogenase by substituting specific
amino acids targeted as potential metallocluster ligands, particularly those to
the FeMo-cofactor, which is responsible for the biologically unique electron
paramagnetic resonance signal (S = 3/2) of nitrogenase, and is believed to be the
N2-reducing site. Here we describe mutant strains of Azotobacter vinelandii that 
have single amino-acid substitutions within the MoFe protein alpha-subunit. These
substitutions alter both substrate-reduction properties and the unique electron
paramagnetic resonance signal, indicating that the FeMo-cofactor is associated
with both the alpha-subunit and the substrate-reducing site.

DOI: 10.1038/343188a0 
PMID: 2153269  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Nature. 1990 Jan 11;343(6254):177-80.

Identification of a retinoic acid responsive element in the retinoic acid
receptor beta gene.

de Thé H(1), Vivanco-Ruiz MM, Tiollais P, Stunnenberg H, Dejean A.

Author information: 
(1)Unité de recombinaison et d'expression génétique (INSERM U 163, CNRS UA 271), 
Institut Pasteur, Paris.

Retinoic acid, the first morphogen described so far in vertebrates, is a vitamin 
A derivative which exerts striking effects on development and differentiation.
The identification of three retinoic acid receptors as members of the nuclear
receptor super-family provides an explantation for the molecular action of
morphogens on gene expression. Functional analysis of the receptors requires the 
identification of target genes and of their cis-acting retinoic acid-responsive
elements. We have previously shown that the retinoic acid receptor beta gene is
transcriptionally up-regulated by retinoic acid and now report the
characterization of a functional retinoic acid responsive element in the beta
gene that mediates trans-activation by retinoic acid. Using deletion mapping, we 
have identified a 27-base pair fragment, located 59 base pairs upstream of the
transcriptional start, which confers retinoic acid responsiveness on the herpes
virus thymidine kinase promoter. This sequence contains a perfect direct repeat
of the motif GTTCAC, which is reminiscent of the 5' half-palindrome of the
thyroid and oestrogen hormone responsive elements. Specific binding of the beta
protein to the retinoic acid responsive element is demonstrated and is
independent of the presence of retinoic acid. Both alpha and beta receptors
enhance retinoic acid response in CV1 cells, indicating that they can both act
through the same DNA sequence.

DOI: 10.1038/343177a0 
PMID: 2153268  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Nature. 1990 Jan 11;343(6254):140-5.

Structural basis of the allosteric behaviour of phosphofructokinase.

Schirmer T(1), Evans PR.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, UK.

Comparison between the crystal structures of low- and high-affinity forms of
phosphofructokinase shows a close coupling between the change of quaternary
structure and local changes triggered by binding of the allosteric effectors.
These concerted changes link all the substrate and effector sites in the
tetramer, and explain the change of affinity for the cooperative substrate.

DOI: 10.1038/343140a0 
PMID: 2136935  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Nature. 1990 Jan 11;343(6254):170-3.

Vitronectin receptor-mediated phagocytosis of cells undergoing apoptosis.

Savill J(1), Dransfield I, Hogg N, Haslett C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Royal Postgraduate Medical School, Hammersmith
Hospital, London, UK.

Phagocyte recognition of cells that have undergone apoptosis (programmed cell
death) is an event of broad biological significance. Characterized by endogenous 
endonuclease activation, which results in chromatin fragmentation and nuclear
condensation, apoptosis leads to swift ingestion of intact but 'senescent' or
'unwanted' cells by phagocytes in processes as diverse as the physiological
involution of organs, the remodelling of embryonic tissues, and metamorphosis.
The cell-surface mechanisms by which macrophages recognize apoptotic cells as
'senescent-self' have remained obscure. Here we report that macrophage
recognition of apoptotic cells (both neutrophils and lymphocytes) is mediated by 
the vitronectin receptor, a heterodimer belonging to the beta 3 or cytoadhesin
family of the integrins. Previously, the functions of the vitronectin receptor
were believed to be limited to cell anchorage, but our findings indicate that the
receptor has a novel and direct role in self-senescent-self intercellular
recognition leading to macrophage phagocytosis of cells undergoing apoptosis.

DOI: 10.1038/343170a0 
PMID: 1688647  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Nature. 1990 Jan 4;343(6253):90-2.

Inhibition of HIV-1 protease in infected T-lymphocytes by synthetic peptide
analogues.

Meek TD(1), Lambert DM, Dreyer GB, Carr TJ, Tomaszek TA Jr, Moore ML, Strickler
JE, Debouck C, Hyland LJ, Matthews TJ, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Smith Kline & French Laboratories, King of 
Prussia, Pennsylvania 19406.

The gag and pol genes of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) (ref. 1)
are translated as two polyproteins, Pr55gag and Pr160gag-pol (refs 2-6), which
are subsequently cleaved by the action of a virus-encoded protease into the four 
structural gag proteins of the virion core (p17, p24, p7 and p6) and the
pol-encoded enzymes essential for retrovirus replication (protease, reverse
transcriptase, ribonuclease H, and endonuclease). Mutational inactivation of the 
proteases of HIV-1 and other retroviruses results in immature, non-infectious
virions, indicating that exogenous inhibition of the protease may represent an
attractive approach to anti-AIDS therapy. Here we demonstrate that synthetic
peptide analogues, which are potent inhibitors of purified HIV-1 protease,
inhibit the processing of the viral polyproteins in cultures of HIV-1-infected T 
lymphocytes and attenuate viral infectivity.

DOI: 10.1038/343090a0 
PMID: 1688646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Nature. 1990 Jan 4;343(6253):85-9.

High levels of unintegrated HIV-1 DNA in brain tissue of AIDS dementia patients.

Pang S(1), Koyanagi Y, Miles S, Wiley C, Vinters HV, Chen IS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, UCSD School of Medicine, La Jolla 92083.

In the host cell, retroviral DNAs exist in three main forms: unintegrated linear,
unintegrated circular, and integrated (the provirus). High levels of unintegrated
forms of retroviral DNA often correlate with superinfection and accompanying
cytopathic effects, as, for example, in the case of feline acquired
immunodeficiency. In culture, HIV-1 infection also results in high levels of
unintegrated viral DNA although direct correlations with cytopathicity have not
been made. The low frequency of HIV-1-infected cells in patients has made it
difficult to determine the structure of the viral DNA in fresh tissue samples
from AIDS patients by standard methods such as Southern hybridization. The PCR
technique however, which allows the detection of viral DNA at levels far below
that possible by other hybridization methods is, in its conventional form, of
limited use for quantitative analysis. To study the amount and form of HIV-1 DNA 
in primary tissue of AIDS patients we have therefore modified the PCR method. Our
results indicate that each of the three species of viral DNA are detectable in
blood and brain of AIDS patients, and that in autopsy samples from patients with 
HIV encephalitis there is a considerably higher proportion of unintegrated viral 
DNA.

DOI: 10.1038/343085a0 
PMID: 2296295  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Nature. 1990 Jan 4;343(6253):82-5.

Induction of a novel epidermal growth factor-secreting cell lineage by mucosal
ulceration in human gastrointestinal stem cells.

Wright NA(1), Pike C, Elia G.

Author information: 
(1)ICRF Laboratories, Lincoln's Inn Fields, London, UK.

Epidermal growth factor, and its human homologue urogastrone (EGF/URO), are
secreted by the gut-associated salivary and Brunner's glands. Recombinant EGF/URO
is a powerful stimulator of cell proliferation and differentiation in the rodent 
and neonatal human intestine. But EGF/URO is not absorbed from the adult gut and 
has no action when given through the gut lumen; thus the role of secreted EGF/URO
is unknown. We now report that ulceration of the epithelium anywhere in the human
gastrointestinal tract induces the development of a novel cell lineage from
gastrointestinal stem cells. This lineage initially appears as a bud from the
base of intestinal crypts, adjacent to the ulcer, and grows locally as a tubule, 
ramifying to form a new small gland, and ultimately emerges onto the mucosal
surface. The lineage produces neutral mucin, shows a unique lectin-binding
profile and immunophenotype, is nonproliferative, and contains and secretes
abundant immunoreactive EGF/URO. We propose that all gastrointestinal stem cells 
can produce this cell lineage after mucosal ulceration, secreting EGF/URO to
stimulate cell proliferation, regeneration and ulcer healing. This cell lineage
is very commonly associated with gastrointestinal mucosal ulceration, and we
conclude that a principal in vivo role for EGF/URO is to stimulate ulcer healing 
throughout the gut through induction of this cell lineage in the adjacent mucosa.

DOI: 10.1038/343082a0 
PMID: 2296294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Nature. 1990 Jan 4;343(6253):68-70.

Functions of the colour-opponent and broad-band channels of the visual system.

Schiller PH(1), Logothetis NK, Charles ER.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge 02139.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jan 4;343(6253):16-7.

The colour-opponent and broad-band channels of the primate visual system
originate in the retina and remain segregated through several neural stations in 
the visual system. Until now inferences about their function in vision have been 
based primarily on studies examining single-cell receptive field properties which
have shown that the colour-opponent retinal ganglion cells have small receptive
fields, produce sustained responses and receive spatially segregated inputs from 
different cone types; the broad-band cells have large receptive fields, respond
transiently and receive cone inputs that are not spatially separated. We have now
examined the visual capacities of rhesus monkeys before and after interrupting
either of these channels with small lesions at the lateral geniculate nucleus.
Here we report that the colour-opponent channel is essential for the processing
of colour, texture, fine pattern and fine stereopsis, whereas the broad-band
channel is crucial for the perception of fast flicker and motion. Little or no
deficits were found in brightness and coarse-shape discrimination, low spatial
frequency stereopsis and contrast sensitivity after the disruption of either of
the channels.

DOI: 10.1038/343068a0 
PMID: 2296292  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Nature. 1990 Jan 4;343(6253):66-7.

Sexual selection for sensory exploitation in the frog Physalaemus pustulosus.

Ryan MJ(1), Fox JH, Wilczynski W, Rand AS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Texas, Austin 78712.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jan 4;343(6253):20.

The sensory bases of species and population mate preferences are well known; in
frogs properties of the female auditory system influence such preferences. By
contrast, there is little understanding of how sensory characteristics could
result in sexual selection within a population. One possible mechanism is that
females are more sensitive to male courtship signals that deviate from the
population mean. We document this mechanism in the frog Physalaemus pustulosus.
Female basilar papilla tuning is biased toward lower-than-average frequencies in 
the 'chuck' portion of the male's call, explaining female preference for the
lower-frequency chucks produced by larger males. The tuning does not differ
between P. pustulosus and its close relative P. coloradorum, a species in which
males never evolved the ability to produce chucks; thus the female tuning evolved
before the chuck and therefore the chuck played no role in the evolution of the
preference. This allows us to reject two popular hypotheses for the evolution of 
this female preference (runaway sexual selection and natural selection) in favour
of a third: sexual selection for sensory exploitation.

DOI: 10.1038/343066a0 
PMID: 2296291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Nature. 1990 Jan 4;343(6253):38-43.

Redesign of the coenzyme specificity of a dehydrogenase by protein engineering.

Scrutton NS(1), Berry A, Perham RN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Cambridge, UK.

Directed mutagenesis and molecular modelling have been used to identify a set of 
amino-acid side chains in glutathione reductase that confer specificity for the
coenzyme NADP+. Systematic replacement of these amino acids, all of which occur
in a 'fingerprint' structural motif in the NADP+-binding domain, leaves the
substrate specificity unchanged but converts the enzyme into one displaying a
marked preference for the coenzyme NAD+.

DOI: 10.1038/343038a0 
PMID: 2296288  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Nature. 1990 Jan 4;343(6253):92-6.

Structure and evolution of a human erythroid transcription factor.

Trainor CD(1), Evans T, Felsenfeld G, Boguski MS.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Bikology, NIDDK, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

Vertebrate erythroid cells contain a tissue-specific transcription factor
referred to as Eryf 1 (ref. 1), GF-1 (ref. 2) or NF-E1 (ref. 3), for which
binding sites are widely distributed in the promoters and enhancers of the globin
gene family, and of other erythroid-specific genes. Aberrant binding of the human
factor to a mutant site has been implicated in one form of hereditary persistence
of fetal haemoglobin (HPFH; ref. 2). The complementary DNAs for both the chicken 
cEryf 1 (ref. 11) and mouse mEryf 1 (ref. 12) encoding genes have recently been
cloned. We report here the cloning of the cDNA for the human Eryf 1 encoding
gene. The central third of the hEryf 1 cDNA, containing two 'finger' motifs, is
almost identical to that of chicken or mouse. The amino-and carboxy-terminal
thirds of the human protein are similar to those of mouse, but are strikingly
different from the corresponding domains in chicken. The evidence indicates that 
these erythroid regulatory factors evolved from a common precursor composed of
two distinct kinds of repeated domains, which subsequently evolved at greatly
different rates.

DOI: 10.1038/343092a0 
PMID: 2104960  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Nature. 1990 Jan 4;343(6253):79-82.

Go protein as signal transducer in the pertussis toxin-sensitive
phosphatidylinositol pathway.

Moriarty TM(1), Padrell E, Carty DJ, Omri G, Landau EM, Iyengar R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York
10029.

Receptors stimulating phospholipase C do so through heterotrimeric GTP-binding
proteins to produce two second messengers, inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP3)
and diacylglycerol. In spite of the detailed understanding of phospholipase C
structure and phosphatidyl inositol signalling, the identity of the GTP-binding
protein involved is so far unknown. To address this issue, we have used the
Xenopus oocyte in which muscarinic receptors couple to phospholipase C through a 
pertussis toxin-sensitive GTP-binding protein. In this cell, InsP3 mobilizes
intracellular Ca2+ to evoke a Cl- current. The magnitude of this Cl- current is
proportional to the amount of InsP3 in the cell, and therefore can be used as an 
assay for InsP3 production. We report here that the activated alpha-subunit of
the GTP-binding protein GO, when directly injected into oocytes, evokes a Cl-
current by mobilizing Ca2+ from intracellular InsP3-sensitive stores. We also
show that holo-GO, when injected into oocytes, can specifically enhance the
muscarinic receptor-stimulated Cl- current. These data indicate that GO can serve
as the signal transducer of the receptor-regulated phospholipase C in Xenopus
oocytes.

DOI: 10.1038/343079a0 
PMID: 2104959  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Nature. 1990 Jan 4;343(6253):74-6.

Class II MHC molecules can use the endogenous pathway of antigen presentation.

Nuchtern JG(1), Biddison WE, Klausner RD.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology and Metabolism Branch, National Institute of Child Health and
Human Development, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

Models for antigen presentation have divided the world of antigens into two
categories, endogenous and exogenous, presented to T cells by class I and class
II major histocompatibility complex (MHC) encoded molecules, respectively.
Exogenous antigens are though to be taken up into peripheral endosomal
compartments where they are processed for binding to class II MHC molecules.
Endogenous antigens are either synthesized or efficiently delivered to the
cytoplasm before being partially degraded in an as yet undefined way, and
complexed with class I MHC molecules. A useful phenotypic distinction between the
two pathways has been the sensitivity to weak bases, such as chloroquine, which
is a property only of the exogenous pathway. The fungal antibiotic brefeldin A
(BFA), which blocks protein transport from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi
network, also blocks class I-restricted antigen-presentation, providing us with
the corresponding marker of the endogenous pathway. Experiments with influenza
virus antigens have supported the view that class II MHC molecules can present
exogenous but not endogenous antigen, whereas the observation that class II MHC
molecules present measles virus non-membrane antigens by a
chloroquine-insensitive pathway suggests that this is not always the case. We
show here that influenza A matrix protein can be effectively presented to class
II-restricted T cells by two pathways: one of which is chloroquine-sensitive,
BFA-insensitive, the other being chloroquine-insensitive and BFA-sensitive. Our
results indicate that both class I and class II molecules can complex with
antigenic peptides in a pre-Golgi compartment and favour a unified mechanism for 
MHC-restricted endogenous antigen presentation.

DOI: 10.1038/343074a0 
PMID: 1967486  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Nature. 1990 Jan 4;343(6253):71-4.

Defective processing and presentation of exogenous antigens in mutants with
normal HLA class II genes.

Mellins E(1), Smith L, Arp B, Cotner T, Celis E, Pious D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Washington, Seattle 98195.

Presentation of an exogenous protein antigen to helper (CD4+)T-lymphocytes by
antigen presenting cells (APC) generally requires that the APCs degrade the
native protein antigen into an immunogenic peptide, a process termed 'antigen
processing', and that this peptide bind to a major histocompatibility complex
(MHC) class II molecule. The complex of peptide and MHC molecule on the APC
surface provides the stimulatory ligand for the alpha beta T cell receptor. The
intracellular pathways and molecular mechanisms involved in the generation of the
peptide-MHC complex are not well understood. Here, we describe several mutant
APCs which are altered in their ability to present native exogenous protein
antigens but effectively present immunogenic peptides derived from these
proteins. The lesions in these mutants are not in the class II structural genes, 
but they affect the conformation of mature class II dimers.

DOI: 10.1038/343071a0 
PMID: 1967485  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Nature. 1990 Jan 4;343(6253):76-9.

Haemopoietic colony stimulating factors promote cell survival by suppressing
apoptosis.

Williams GT(1), Smith CA, Spooncer E, Dexter TM, Taylor DR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Birmingham Medical School, UK.

The survival, differentiation, proliferation and development of haemopoietic
precursor cells and the functional activity of mature blood cells are all
influenced by colony stimulating factors (CSFs). As haemopoietic cells rapidly
die in the absence of appropriate CSF, the promotion of cell survival mediated by
CSFs, or growth factors, is fundamental to all the other effects exerted by these
factors. This enhancement of cell survival is distinct from the stimulation of
proliferation. Here we show that the death of haemopoietic precursor cells on
withdrawal of the relevant CSF. is due to active cell death, or apoptosis,
indicating that CSFs promote cell survival by suppression of the process of
apoptosis. The existence of a positive control mechanism regulating precursor
cell survival has important implications both for the regulation of normal
haemopoiesis and for tumorigenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/343076a0 
PMID: 1688645  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Nature. 1990 Jan 4;343(6253):33-7.

Enzymatic incorporation of a new base pair into DNA and RNA extends the genetic
alphabet.

Piccirilli JA(1), Krauch T, Moroney SE, Benner SA.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Organic Chemistry, ETH Zurich, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 1990 Jan 4;343(6253):18-20.

A new Watson-Crick base pair, with a hydrogen bonding pattern different from that
in the A.T and G.C base pairs, is incorporated into duplex DNA and RNA by DNA and
RNA polymerases and expands the genetic alphabet from 4 to 6 letters. This
expansion could lead to RNAs with greater diversity in functional groups and
greater catalytic potential.

DOI: 10.1038/343033a0 
PMID: 1688644  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

