
1. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):998-1000.

Controlled growth factor release from synthetic extracellular matrices.

Lee KY(1), Peters MC, Anderson KW, Mooney DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biologic & Materials Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
48109, USA.

Polymeric matrices can be used to grow new tissues and organs, and the delivery
of growth factors from these matrices is one method to regenerate tissues. A
problem with engineering tissues that exist in a mechanically dynamic
environment, such as bone, muscle and blood vessels, is that most drug delivery
systems have been designed to operate under static conditions. We thought that
polymeric matrices, which release growth factors in response to mechanical
signals, might provide a new approach to guide tissue formation in mechanically
stressed environments. Critical design features for this type of system include
the ability to undergo repeated deformation, and a reversible binding of the
protein growth factors to polymeric matrices to allow for responses to repeated
stimuli. Here we report a model delivery system that can respond to mechanical
signalling and upregulate the release of a growth factor to promote blood vessel 
formation. This approach may find a number of applications, including
regeneration and engineering of new tissues and more general drug-delivery
applications.

DOI: 10.1038/35050141 
PMID: 11140690  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):994-7.

Hypoinsulinaemia, glucose intolerance and diminished beta-cell size in
S6K1-deficient mice.

Pende M(1), Kozma SC, Jaquet M, Oorschot V, Burcelin R, Le Marchand-Brustel Y,
Klumperman J, Thorens B, Thomas G.

Author information: 
(1)Friedrich Miescher Institute, Basel, Switzerland.

Insulin controls glucose homeostasis by regulating glucose use in peripheral
tissues, and its own production and secretion in pancreatic beta cells. These
responses are largely mediated downstream of the insulin receptor substrates,
IRS-1 and IRS-2 (refs 4-8), through distinct signalling pathways. Although a
number of effectors of these pathways have been identified, their roles in
mediating glucose homeostasis are poorly defined. Here we show that mice
deficient for S6 kinase 1, an effector of the phosphatidylinositide-3-OH kinase
signalling pathway, are hypoinsulinaemic and glucose intolerant. Whereas insulin 
resistance is not observed in isolated muscle, such mice exhibit a sharp
reduction in glucose-induced insulin secretion and in pancreatic insulin content.
This is not due to a lesion in glucose sensing or insulin production, but to a
reduction in pancreatic endocrine mass, which is accounted for by a selective
decrease in beta-cell size. The observed phenotype closely parallels those of
preclinical type 2 diabetes mellitus, in which malnutrition-induced
hypoinsulinaemia predisposes individuals to glucose intolerance.

DOI: 10.1038/35050135 
PMID: 11140689  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):990-4.

Co-assembly of polycystin-1 and -2 produces unique cation-permeable currents.

Hanaoka K(1), Qian F, Boletta A, Bhunia AK, Piontek K, Tsiokas L, Sukhatme VP,
Guggino WB, Germino GG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

The human kidney is composed of roughly 1.2-million renal tubules that must
maintain their tubular structure to function properly. In autosomal dominant
polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) cysts develop from renal tubules and enlarge
independently, in a process that ultimately causes renal failure in 50% of
affected individuals. Mutations in either PKD1 or PKD2 are associated with ADPKD 
but the function of these genes is unknown. PKD1 is thought to encode a membrane 
protein, polycystin-1, involved in cell-cell or cell-matrix interactions, whereas
the PKD2 gene product, polycystin-2, is thought to be a channel protein. Here we 
show that polycystin-1 and -2 interact to produce new calcium-permeable
non-selective cation currents. Neither polycystin-1 nor -2 alone is capable of
producing currents. Moreover, disease-associated mutant forms of either
polycystin protein that are incapable of heterodimerization do not result in new 
channel activity. We also show that polycystin-2 is localized in the cell in the 
absence of polycystin-1, but is translocated to the plasma membrane in its
presence. Thus, polycystin-1 and -2 co-assemble at the plasma membrane to produce
a new channel and to regulate renal tubular morphology and function.

DOI: 10.1038/35050128 
PMID: 11140688  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):985-90.

Induction of vanilloid receptor channel activity by protein kinase C.

Premkumar LS(1), Ahern GP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine,
Springfield 62702, USA. lpremkumar@siumed.edu

Capsaicin or vanilloid receptors (VRs) participate in the sensation of thermal
and inflammatory pain. The cloned (VR1) and native VRs are non-selective cation
channels directly activated by harmful heat, extracellular protons and vanilloid 
compounds. However, considerable attention has been focused on identifying other 
signalling pathways in VR activation; it is known that VR1 is also expressed in
non-sensory tissue and may mediate inflammatory rather than acute thermal pain.
Here we show that activation of protein kinase C (PKC) induces VR1 channel
activity at room temperature in the absence of any other agonist. We also
observed this effect in native VRs from sensory neurons, and phorbol esters
induced a vanilloid-sensitive Ca2+ rise in these cells. Moreover, the
pro-inflammatory peptide, bradykinin, and the putative endogenous ligand,
anandamide, respectively induced and enhanced VR activity, in a PKC-dependent
manner. These results suggest that PKC may link a range of stimuli to the
activation of VRs.

DOI: 10.1038/35050121 
PMID: 11140687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):982-5.

A beta peptide vaccination prevents memory loss in an animal model of Alzheimer's
disease.

Morgan D(1), Diamond DM, Gottschall PE, Ugen KE, Dickey C, Hardy J, Duff K,
Jantzen P, DiCarlo G, Wilcock D, Connor K, Hatcher J, Hope C, Gordon M, Arendash 
GW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of South Florida, Tampa 33612, USA.
dmorgan@hsc.usf.edu

Erratum in
    Nature 2001 Aug 9;412(6847):660.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):915-6.
    Nature. 2002 Apr 18;416(6882):677.

Vaccinations with amyloid-beta peptide (A beta) can dramatically reduce amyloid
deposition in a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. To determine if
the vaccinations had deleterious or beneficial functional consequences, we tested
eight months of A beta vaccination in a different transgenic model for
Alzheimer's disease in which mice develop learning deficits as amyloid
accumulates. Here we show that vaccination with A beta protects transgenic mice
from the learning and age-related memory deficits that normally occur in this
mouse model for Alzheimer's disease. During testing for potential deleterious
effects of the vaccine, all mice performed superbly on the radial-arm water-maze 
test of working memory. Later, at an age when untreated transgenic mice show
memory deficits, the A beta-vaccinated transgenic mice showed cognitive
performance superior to that of the control transgenic mice and, ultimately,
performed as well as nontransgenic mice. The A beta-vaccinated mice also had a
partial reduction in amyloid burden at the end of the study. This therapeutic
approach may thus prevent and, possibly, treat Alzheimer's dementia.

DOI: 10.1038/35050116 
PMID: 11140686  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):979-82.

A beta peptide immunization reduces behavioural impairment and plaques in a model
of Alzheimer's disease.

Janus C(1), Pearson J, McLaurin J, Mathews PM, Jiang Y, Schmidt SD, Chishti MA,
Horne P, Heslin D, French J, Mount HT, Nixon RA, Mercken M, Bergeron C, Fraser
PE, St George-Hyslop P, Westaway D.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases, Department of Medicine,
University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):915-6.
    Nature. 2002 Apr 18;416(6882):677.

Much evidence indicates that abnormal processing and extracellular deposition of 
amyloid-beta peptide (A beta), a proteolytic derivative of the beta-amyloid
precursor protein (betaAPP), is central to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's
disease (reviewed in ref. 1). In the PDAPP transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's 
disease, immunization with A beta causes a marked reduction in burden of the
brain amyloid. Evidence that A beta immunization also reduces cognitive
dysfunction in murine models of Alzheimer's disease would support the hypothesis 
that abnormal A beta processing is essential to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's
disease, and would encourage the development of other strategies directed at the 
'amyloid cascade'. Here we show that A beta immunization reduces both deposition 
of cerebral fibrillar A beta and cognitive dysfunction in the TgCRND8 murine
model of Alzheimer's disease without, however, altering total levels of A beta in
the brain. This implies that either a approximately 50% reduction in dense-cored 
A beta plaques is sufficient to affect cognition, or that vaccination may
modulate the activity/abundance of a small subpopulation of especially toxic A
beta species.

DOI: 10.1038/35050110 
PMID: 11140685  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):975-9.

A learning deficit related to age and beta-amyloid plaques in a mouse model of
Alzheimer's disease.

Chen G(1), Chen KS, Knox J, Inglis J, Bernard A, Martin SJ, Justice A, McConlogue
L, Games D, Freedman SB, Morris RG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Edinburgh, UK.

Mice that overexpress the human mutant amyloid precursor protein (hAPP) show
learning deficits, but the apparent lack of a relationship between these deficits
and the progressive beta-amyloid plaque formation that the hAPP mice display is
puzzling. In the water maze, hAPP mice are impaired before and after amyloid
plaque deposition. Here we show, using a new water-maze training protocol, that
PDAPP mice also exhibit a separate age-related deficit in learning a series of
spatial locations. This impairment correlates with beta-amyloid plaque burden and
is shown in both cross-sectional and longitudinal experimental designs. Cued
navigation and object-recognition memory are normal. These findings indicate that
A beta overexpression and/or A beta plaques are associated with disturbed
cognitive function and, importantly, suggest that some but not all forms of
learning and memory are suitable behavioural assays of the progressive cognitive 
deficits associated with Alzheimer's-disease-type pathologies.

DOI: 10.1038/35050103 
PMID: 11140684  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):971-5.

Neuronal switching of sensorimotor transformations for antisaccades.

Zhang M(1), Barash S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):921, 923.

The influence of cognitive context on orienting behaviour can be explored using
the mixed memory-prosaccade, memory-antisaccade task. A symbolic cue, such as the
colour of a visual stimulus, instructs the subject to make a brief, rapid eye
movement (a saccade) either towards the stimulus (prosaccade) or in the opposite 
direction (antisaccade). Thus, the appropriate sensorimotor transformation must
be switched on to execute the instructed task. Despite advances in our
understanding of the neuronal processing of antisaccades, it remains unclear how 
the brain selects and computes the sensorimotor transformation leading to an
antisaccade. Here we show that area LIP of the posterior parietal cortex is
involved in these processes. LIP's population activity turns from the visual
direction to the motor direction during memory-antisaccade trials. About
one-third of the visual neurons in LIP produce a brisk, transient discharge in
certain memory-antisaccade trials. We call this discharge 'paradoxical' because
its timing is visual-like but its direction is motor. The paradoxical discharge
shows, first, that switching occurs already at the level of visual cells, as
previously proposed by Schlag-Rey and colleagues; and second, that this switching
is accomplished very rapidly, within 50 ms from the arrival of the visual signals
in LIP.

DOI: 10.1038/35050097 
PMID: 11140683  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):967-71.

Asymmetric leaves1 mediates leaf patterning and stem cell function in
Arabidopsis.

Byrne ME(1), Barley R, Curtis M, Arroyo JM, Dunham M, Hudson A, Martienssen RA.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, New York 11724, USA.

Meristem function in plants requires both the maintenance of stem cells and the
specification of founder cells from which lateral organs arise. Lateral organs
are patterned along proximodistal, dorsoventral and mediolateral axes. Here we
show that the Arabidopsis mutant asymmetric leaves1 (as1) disrupts this process. 
AS1 encodes a myb domain protein, closely related to PHANTASTICA in Antirrhinum
and ROUGH SHEATH2 in maize, both of which negatively regulate knotted-class
homeobox genes. AS1 negatively regulates the homeobox genes KNAT1 and KNAT2 and
is, in turn, negatively regulated by the meristematic homeobox gene SHOOT
MERISTEMLESS. This genetic pathway defines a mechanism for differentiating
between stem cells and organ founder cells within the shoot apical meristem and
demonstrates that genes expressed in organ primordia interact with meristematic
genes to regulate shoot morphogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/35050091 
PMID: 11140682  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):965-7.

Altruism and social cheating in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum.

Strassmann JE(1), Zhu Y, Queller DC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Rice University, Houston,
Texas 77251-1892, USA. strassm@rice.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):917, 919.

The social amoeba, Dictyostelium discoideum, is widely used as a simple model
organism for multicellular development, but its multicellular fruiting stage is
really a society. Most of the time, D. discoideum lives as haploid, free-living, 
amoeboid cells that divide asexually. When starved, 10(4)-10(5) of these cells
aggregate into a slug. The anterior 20% of the slug altruistically differentiates
into a non-viable stalk, supporting the remaining cells, most of which become
viable spores. If aggregating cells come from multiple clones, there should be
selection for clones to exploit other clones by contributing less than their
proportional share to the sterile stalk. Here we use microsatellite markers to
show that different clones collected from a field population readily mix to form 
chimaeras. Half of the chimaeric mixtures show a clear cheater and victim. Thus, 
unlike the clonal and highly cooperative development of most multicellular
organisms, the development of D. discoideum is partly competitive, with conflicts
of interests among cells. These conflicts complicate the use of D. discoideum as 
a model for some aspects of development, but they make it highly attractive as a 
model system for social evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/35050087 
PMID: 11140681  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):961-4.

Disturbance and diversity in experimental microcosms.

Buckling A(1), Kassen R, Bell G, Rainey PB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford, UK.
angus.buckling@plant-sciences.ox.ac.uk

External agents of mortality (disturbances) occur over a wide range of scales of 
space and time, and are believed to have large effects on species diversity. The 
"intermediate disturbance hypothesis", which proposes maximum diversity at
intermediate frequencies of disturbance, has received support from both field and
laboratory studies. Coexistence of species at intermediate frequencies of
disturbance is thought to require trade-offs between competitive ability and
disturbance tolerance, and a metapopulation structure, with disturbance affecting
only a few patches at any given time. However, a unimodal relationship can also
be generated by global disturbances that affect all patches simultaneously,
provided that the environment contains spatial niches to which different species 
are adapted. Here we report the results of tests of this model using both
isogenic and diverse populations of the bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens. In
both cases, a unimodal relationship between diversity and disturbance frequency
was generated in heterogeneous, but not in homogeneous, environments. The cause
of this relationship is competition among niche-specialist genotypes, which
maintains diversity at intermediate disturbance, but not at high or low
disturbance. Our results show that disturbance can modulate the effect of spatial
heterogeneity on biological diversity in natural environments.

DOI: 10.1038/35050080 
PMID: 11140680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):958-61.

Subduction and collision processes in the Central Andes constrained by converted 
seismic phases.

Yuan X(1), Sobolev SV, Kind R, Oncken O, Bock G, Asch G, Schurr B, Graeber F,
Rudloff A, Hanka W, Wylegalla K, Tibi R, Haberland C, Rietbrock A, Giese P,
Wigger P, Röwer P, Zandt G, Beck S, Wallace T, Pardo M, Comte D.

Author information: 
(1)GeoForschungsZentrum Potsdam, Telegrafenberg, Germany.

The Central Andes are the Earth's highest mountain belt formed by ocean-continent
collision. Most of this uplift is thought to have occurred in the past 20 Myr,
owing mainly to thickening of the continental crust, dominated by tectonic
shortening. Here we use P-to-S (compressional-to-shear) converted teleseismic
waves observed on several temporary networks in the Central Andes to image the
deep structure associated with these tectonic processes. We find that the Moho
(the Mohorovicić discontinuity--generally thought to separate crust from mantle) 
ranges from a depth of 75 km under the Altiplano plateau to 50 km beneath the
4-km-high Puna plateau. This relatively thin crust below such a high-elevation
region indicates that thinning of the lithospheric mantle may have contributed to
the uplift of the Puna plateau. We have also imaged the subducted crust of the
Nazca oceanic plate down to 120 km depth, where it becomes invisible to converted
teleseismic waves, probably owing to completion of the gabbro-eclogite
transformation; this is direct evidence for the presence of kinetically delayed
metamorphic reactions in subducting plates. Most of the intermediate-depth
seismicity in the subducting plate stops at 120 km depth as well, suggesting a
relation with this transformation. We see an intracrustal low-velocity zone,
10-20 km thick, below the entire Altiplano and Puna plateaux, which we interpret 
as a zone of continuing metamorphism and partial melting that decouples
upper-crustal imbrication from lower-crustal thickening.

DOI: 10.1038/35050073 
PMID: 11140679 


13. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):954-8.

Evidence from episodic seamount volcanism for pulsing of the Iceland plume in the
past 70 Myr.

O'Connor JM(1), Stoffers P, Wijbrans JR, Shannon PM, Morrissey T.

Author information: 
(1)Geomar-Research Center for Marine Geosciences, Kiel, Germany.
joconnor@geomar.de

The North Atlantic volcanic province has been attributed to continental rifting
about 60 Myr ago over an Iceland plume head with a diameter of 1,000-2,000 km
(refs 1, 2). But evidence from a few igneous centres has been used to infer that 
earlier plume activity occurred in this region. The three seamounts in the
Rockall trough off the Atlantic coast of Scotland are among the few accessible
remnants of such early plume activity. Here we present 40Ar-39Ar
incremental-heating ages of samples from these seamounts, which show that
volcanism began there in the late Cretaceous period (70 +/- 1 Myr ago), and then 
continued for the next 30 Myr in at least four discrete phases: 62, 52, 47 and 42
Myr ago. We relate this activity to pulsing of large masses (approximately 10(8) 
km3) of hot Iceland plume material on timescales of 5-10 Myr. This significantly 
extends the time span for Iceland plume activity both backwards and forwards in
time, and provides a possible alternative to the 'plume head' models for the
formation of continental flood basalts.

DOI: 10.1038/35050066 
PMID: 11140678 


14. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):951-4.

The influence of rivers on marine boron isotopes and implications for
reconstructing past ocean pH.

Lemarchand D(1), Gaillardet J, Lewin E, Allègre CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Géochimie et Cosmochimie, Institut de Physique du globe de
Paris. lemarcha@ipgp.jussieu.fr

Ocean pH is particularly sensitive to atmospheric carbon dioxide content. Records
of ocean pH can therefore be used to estimate past atmospheric carbon dioxide
concentrations. The isotopic composition of boron (delta11B) contained in the
carbonate shells of marine organisms varies according to pH, from which ocean pH 
can be reconstructed. This requires independent estimates of the delta11B of
dissolved boron in sea water through time. The marine delta11B budget, however,
is still largely unconstrained. Here we show that, by incorporating the global
flux of riverine boron (as estimated from delta11B measurements in 22 of the
world's main rivers), the marine boron isotope budget can be balanced. We also
derive ocean delta11B budgets for the past 120 Myr. Estimated isotope
compositions of boron in sea water show a remarkable consistency with records of 
delta11B in foraminiferal carbonates, suggesting that foraminifera delta11B
records may in part reflect changes in the marine boron isotope budget rather
than changes in ocean pH over the Cenozoic era.

DOI: 10.1038/35050058 
PMID: 11140677 


15. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):949-51.

Pairing of isolated nucleic-acid bases in the absence of the DNA backbone.

Nir E(1), Kleinermanns K, de Vries MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel.

The two intertwined strands of DNA are held together through base pairing--the
formation of hydrogen bonds between bases located opposite each other on the two 
strands. DNA replication and transcription involve the breaking and re-forming of
these hydrogen bonds, but it is difficult to probe these processes directly. For 
example, conventional DNA spectroscopy is dominated by solvent interactions,
crystal modes and collective modes of the DNA backbone; gas-phase studies, in
contrast, can in principle measure interactions between individual molecules in
the absence of external effects, but require the vaporization of the interacting 
species without thermal degradation. Here we report the generation of gas-phase
complexes comprising paired bases, and the spectroscopic characterization of the 
hydrogen bonding in isolated guanine-cytosine (G-C) and guanine-guanine (G-G)
base pairs. We find that the gas-phase G-C base pair adopts a single
configuration, which may be Watson-Crick, whereas G-G exists in two different
configurations, and we see evidence for proton transfer in the G-C pair, an
important step in radiation-induced DNA damage pathways. Interactions between
different bases and between bases and water molecules can also be characterized
by our approach, providing stringent tests for high-level ab initio computations 
that aim to elucidate the fundamental aspects of nucleotide interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/35050053 
PMID: 11140676  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):946-9.

Mesoscopic fast ion conduction in nanometre-scale planar heterostructures.

Sata N(1), Eberman K, Eberl K, Maier J.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Festkörperforschung, Stuttgart, Germany.

Ion conduction is of prime importance for solid-state reactions in ionic systems,
and for devices such as high-temperature batteries and fuel cells, chemical
filters and sensors. Ionic conductivity in solid electrolytes can be improved by 
dissolving appropriate impurities into the structure or by introducing interfaces
that cause the redistribution of ions in the space-charge regions.
Heterojunctions in two-phase systems should be particularly efficient at
improving ionic conduction, and a qualitatively different conductivity behaviour 
is expected when interface spacing is comparable to or smaller than the width of 
the space-charge regions in comparatively large crystals. Here we report the
preparation, by molecular-beam epitaxy, of defined heterolayered films composed
of CaF2 and BaF2 that exhibit ionic conductivity (parallel to the interfaces)
increasing proportionally with interface density--for interfacial spacing greater
than 50 nanometres. The results are in excellent agreement with semi-infinite
space-charge calculations, assuming a redistribution of fluoride ions at the
interfaces. If the spacing is reduced further, the boundary zones overlap and the
predicted mesoscopic size effect is observed. At this point, the single layers
lose their individuality and an artificial ionically conducting material with
anomalous transport properties is generated. Our results should lead to
fundamental insight into ionic contact processes and to tailored ionic conductors
of potential relevance for medium-temperature applications.

DOI: 10.1038/35050047 
PMID: 11140675 


17. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):944-6.

Electric-field control of ferromagnetism.

Ohno H(1), Chiba D, Matsukura F, Omiya T, Abe E, Dietl T, Ohno Y, Ohtani K.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Electronic Intelligent Systems, Research Institute of
Electrical Communication, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan.
ohno@riec.tohoku.ac.jp

It is often assumed that it is not possible to alter the properties of magnetic
materials once they have been prepared and put into use. For example, although
magnetic materials are used in information technology to store trillions of bits 
(in the form of magnetization directions established by applying external
magnetic fields), the properties of the magnetic medium itself remain unchanged
on magnetization reversal. The ability to externally control the properties of
magnetic materials would be highly desirable from fundamental and technological
viewpoints, particularly in view of recent developments in magnetoelectronics and
spintronics. In semiconductors, the conductivity can be varied by applying an
electric field, but the electrical manipulation of magnetism has proved elusive. 
Here we demonstrate electric-field control of ferromagnetism in a thin-film
semiconducting alloy, using an insulating-gate field-effect transistor structure.
By applying electric fields, we are able to vary isothermally and reversibly the 
transition temperature of hole-induced ferromagnetism.

DOI: 10.1038/35050040 
PMID: 11140674 


18. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):936-43.

Stargazin regulates synaptic targeting of AMPA receptors by two distinct
mechanisms.

Chen L(1), Chetkovich DM, Petralia RS, Sweeney NT, Kawasaki Y, Wenthold RJ, Bredt
DS, Nicoll RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology, University of California,
San Francisco 94143, USA.

Stargazer, an ataxic and epileptic mutant mouse, lacks functional AMPA
(alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate) receptors on cerebellar
granule cells. Stargazin, the mutated protein, interacts with both AMPA receptor 
subunits and synaptic PDZ proteins, such as PSD-95. The interaction of stargazin 
with AMPA receptor subunits is essential for delivering functional receptors to
the surface membrane of granule cells, whereas its binding with PSD-95 and
related PDZ proteins through a carboxy-terminal PDZ-binding domain is required
for targeting the AMPA receptor to synapses. Expression of a mutant stargazin
lacking the PDZ-binding domain in hippocampal pyramidal cells disrupts synaptic
AMPA receptors, indicating that stargazin-like mechanisms for targeting AMPA
receptors may be widespread in the central nervous system.

DOI: 10.1038/35050030 
PMID: 11140673  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):931-5.

The cosmic microwave background radiation temperature at a redshift of 2.34.

Srianand R(1), Petitjean P, Ledoux C.

Author information: 
(1)IUCAA, Pune, India. anand@iucaa.ernet.in

The existence of the cosmic microwave background radiation is a fundamental
prediction of hot Big Bang cosmology, and its temperature should increase with
increasing redshift. At the present time (redshift z = 0), the temperature has
been determined with high precision to be T(CMBR)(0) = 2.726 +/- 0.010 K. In
principle, the background temperature can be determined using measurements of the
relative populations of atomic fine-structure levels, which are excited by the
background radiation. But all previous measurements have achieved only upper
limits, thus still formally permitting the radiation temperature to be constant
with increasing redshift. Here we report the detection of absorption lines from
the first and second fine-structure levels of neutral carbon atoms in an isolated
cloud of gas at z = 2.3371. We also detected absorption due to several rotational
transitions of molecular hydrogen, and fine-structure lines of singly ionized
carbon. These constraints enable us to determine that the background radiation
was indeed warmer in the past: we find that T(CMBR)(z = 2.3371) is between 6.0
and 14 K. This is in accord with the temperature of 9.1 K predicted by hot Big
Bang cosmology.

DOI: 10.1038/35050020 
PMID: 11140672 


20. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):1008-12.

Structural basis of IAP recognition by Smac/DIABLO.

Wu G(1), Chai J, Suber TL, Wu JW, Du C, Wang X, Shi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Princeton University, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Apoptosis is an essential process in the development and homeostasis of all
metazoans. The inhibitor-of-apoptosis (IAP) proteins suppress cell death by
inhibiting the activity of caspases; this inhibition is performed by the
zinc-binding BIR domains of the IAP proteins. The mitochondrial protein
Smac/DIABLO promotes apoptosis by eliminating the inhibitory effect of IAPs
through physical interactions. Amino-terminal sequences in Smac/DIABLO are
required for this function, as mutation of the very first amino acid leads to
loss of interaction with IAPs and concomitant loss of Smac/DIABLO function. Here 
we report the high-resolution crystal structure of Smac/DIABLO complexed with the
third BIR domain (BIR3) of XIAP. Our results show that the N-terminal four
residues (Ala-Val-Pro-Ile) in Smac/DIABLO recognize a surface groove on BIR3,
with the first residue Ala binding a hydrophobic pocket and making five hydrogen 
bonds to neighbouring residues on BIR3. These observations provide a structural
explanation for the roles of the Smac N terminus as well as the conserved
N-terminal sequences in the Drosophila proteins Hid/Grim/Reaper. In conjunction
with other observations, our results reveal how Smac may relieve IAP inhibition
of caspase-9 activity. In addition to explaining a number of biological
observations, our structural analysis identifies potential targets for drug
screening.

DOI: 10.1038/35050012 
PMID: 11140638  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):1004-8.

Structural basis for binding of Smac/DIABLO to the XIAP BIR3 domain.

Liu Z(1), Sun C, Olejniczak ET, Meadows RP, Betz SF, Oost T, Herrmann J, Wu JC,
Fesik SW.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical Discovery Division, Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois 
60064, USA.

The inhibitor-of-apoptosis proteins (IAPs) regulate programmed cell death by
inhibiting members of the caspase family of enzymes. Recently, a mammalian
protein called Smac (also named DIABLO) was identified that binds to the IAPs and
promotes caspase activation. Although undefined in the X-ray structure, the
amino-terminal residues of Smac are critical for its function. To understand the 
structural basis for molecular recognition between Smac and the IAPs, we
determined the solution structure of the BIR3 domain of X-linked IAP (XIAP)
complexed with a functionally active nine-residue peptide derived from the N
terminus of Smac. The peptide binds across the third beta-strand of the BIR3
domain in an extended conformation with only the first four residues contacting
the protein. The complex is stabilized by four intermolecular hydrogen bonds, an 
electrostatic interaction involving the N terminus of the peptide, and several
hydrophobic interactions. This structural information, along with the binding
data from BIR3 and Smac peptide mutants reported here, should aid in the design
of small molecules that may be used for the treatment of cancers that overexpress
IAPs.

DOI: 10.1038/35050006 
PMID: 11140637  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Nature. 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):1001-4.

A role for Saccharomyces cerevisiae histone H2A in DNA repair.

Downs JA(1), Lowndes NF, Jackson SP.

Author information: 
(1)The Wellcome Trust and Cancer Research Campaign, Institute of Cancer and
Developmental Biology, and Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge, UK.

Histone proteins associate with and compact eukaryotic nuclear DNA to form
chromatin. The basic unit of chromatin is the nucleosome, which is made up of 146
base pairs of DNA wrapped around two of each of four core histones, H2A, H2B, H3 
and H4. Chromatin structure and its regulation are important in transcription and
DNA replication. We therefore thought that DNA-damage signalling and repair
components might also modulate chromatin structure. Here we have characterized a 
conserved motif in the carboxy terminus of the core histone H2A from
Saccharomyces cerevisiae that contains a consensus phosphorylation site for
phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase related kinases (PIKKs). This motif is important
for survival in the presence of agents that generate DNA double-strand breaks,
and the phosphorylation of this motif in response to DNA damage is dependent on
the PIKK family member Mec1. The motif is not necessary for Mec1-dependent
cell-cycle or transcriptional responses to DNA damage, but is required for
efficient DNA double-strand break repair by non-homologous end joining. In
addition, the motif has a role in determining higher order chromatin structure.
Thus, phosphorylation of a core histone in response to DNA damage may cause an
alteration of chromatin structure that facilitates DNA repair.

DOI: 10.1038/35050000 
PMID: 11140636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):881-4.

Metal-ion coordination by U6 small nuclear RNA contributes to catalysis in the
spliceosome.

Yean SL(1), Wuenschell G, Termini J, Lin RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Beckman Research Institute of the City of
Hope, Duarte, California 91010-3011, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):782-3.

Introns are removed from nuclear messenger RNA precursors through two sequential 
phospho-transesterification reactions in a dynamic RNA-protein complex called the
spliceosome. But whether splicing is catalysed by small nuclear RNAs in the
spliceosome is unresolved. As the spliceosome is a metalloenzyme, it is important
to determine whether snRNAs coordinate catalytic metals. Here we show that yeast 
U6 snRNA coordinates a metal ion that is required for the catalytic activity of
the spliceosome. With Mg2+, U6 snRNA with a sulphur substitution for the pro-Rp
or pro-Sp non-bridging phosphoryl oxygen of nucleotide U80 reconstitutes a fully 
assembled yet catalytically inactive spliceosome. Adding a thiophilic ion such as
Mn2+ allows the first transesterification reaction to occur in the U6/sU80(Sp)-
but not the U6/sU80(Rp)-reconstituted spliceosome. Mg2+ competitively inhibits
the Mn2+-rescued reaction, indicating that the metal-binding site at U6/U80
exists in the wild-type spliceosome and that the site changes its metal
requirement for activity in the Sp spliceosome. Thus, U6 snRNA contributes to
pre-messenger RNA splicing through metal-ion coordination, which is consistent
with RNA catalysis by the spliceosome.

DOI: 10.1038/35048617 
PMCID: PMC4377090
PMID: 11130730  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):877-81.

Dynamic binding of histone H1 to chromatin in living cells.

Misteli T(1), Gunjan A, Hock R, Bustin M, Brown DT.

Author information: 
(1)National Cancer Institute, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
mistelit@mail.nih.gov

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2010 Oct;11(10):678-9.

The linker histone H1 is believed to be involved in chromatin organization by
stabilizing higher-order chromatin structure. Histone H1 is generally viewed as a
repressor of transcription as it prevents the access of transcription factors and
chromatin remodelling complexes to DNA. Determining the binding properties of
histone H1 to chromatin in vivo is central to understanding how it exerts these
functions. We have used photobleaching techniques to measure the dynamic binding 
of histone H1-GFP to unperturbed chromatin in living cells. Here we show that
almost the entire population of H1-GFP is bound to chromatin at any one time;
however, H1-GFP is exchanged continuously between chromatin regions. The
residence time of H1-GFP on chromatin between exchange events is several minutes 
in both euchromatin and heterochromatin. In addition to the mobile fraction, we
detected a kinetically distinct, less mobile fraction. After hyperacetylation of 
core histones, the residence time of H1-GFP is reduced, suggesting a higher rate 
of exchange upon chromatin remodelling. These results support a model in which
linker histones bind dynamically to chromatin in a stop-and-go mode.

DOI: 10.1038/35048610 
PMID: 11130729  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):873-6.

Rapid exchange of histone H1.1 on chromatin in living human cells.

Lever MA(1), Th'ng JP, Sun X, Hendzel MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology and Cross Cancer Institute, Faculty of Medicine and
Dentistry, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada.

The considerable length of DNA in eukaryotic genomes requires packaging into
chromatin to fit inside the small dimensions of the cell nucleus. Histone H1
functions in the compaction of chromatin into higher order structures derived
from the repeating 'beads on a string' nucleosome polymer. Modulation of H1
binding activity is thought to be an important step in the
potentiation/depotentiation of chromatin structure for transcription. It is
generally accepted that H1 binds less tightly than other histones to DNA in
chromatin and can readily exchange in living cells. Fusion proteins of Histone H1
and green fluorescent protein (GFP) have been shown to associate with chromatin
in an apparently identical fashion to native histone H1. This provides a means by
which to study histone H1-chromatin interactions in living cells. Here we have
used human cells with a stably integrated H1.1-GFP fusion protein to monitor
histone H1 movement directly by fluorescence recovery after photobleaching in
living cells. We find that exchange is rapid in both condensed and decondensed
chromatin, occurs throughout the cell cycle, and does not require fibre-fibre
interactions. Treatment with drugs that alter protein phosphorylation
significantly reduces exchange rates. Our results show that histone H1 exchange
in vivo is rapid, occurs through a soluble intermediate, and is modulated by the 
phosphorylation of a protein or proteins as yet to be determined.

DOI: 10.1038/35048603 
PMID: 11130728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):869-73.

Phosphoglycerate kinase acts in tumour angiogenesis as a disulphide reductase.

Lay AJ(1), Jiang XM, Kisker O, Flynn E, Underwood A, Condron R, Hogg PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Thrombosis and Vascular Research, School of Pathology, University
of New South Wales and Department of Haematology, Prince of Wales Hospital,
Sydney, Australia.

Disulphide bonds in secreted proteins are considered to be inert because of the
oxidizing nature of the extracellular milieu. An exception to this rule is a
reductase secreted by tumour cells that reduces disulphide bonds in the serine
proteinase plasmin. Reduction of plasmin initiates proteolytic cleavage in the
kringle 5 domain and release of the tumour blood vessel inhibitor angiostatin.
New blood vessel formation or angiogenesis is critical for tumour expansion and
metastasis. Here we show that the plasmin reductase isolated from conditioned
medium of fibrosarcoma cells is the glycolytic enzyme phosphoglycerate kinase.
Recombinant phosphoglycerate kinase had the same specific activity as the
fibrosarcoma-derived protein. Plasma of mice bearing fibrosarcoma tumours
contained several-fold more phosphoglycerate kinase, as compared with mice
without tumours. Administration of phosphoglycerate kinase to tumour-bearing mice
caused an increase in plasma levels of angiostatin, and a decrease in tumour
vascularity and rate of tumour growth. Our findings indicate that
phosphoglycerate kinase not only functions in glycolysis but is secreted by
tumour cells and participates in the angiogenic process as a disulphide
reductase.

DOI: 10.1038/35048596 
PMID: 11130727  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):864-8.

Attenuation of FGF signalling in mouse beta-cells leads to diabetes.

Hart AW(1), Baeza N, Apelqvist A, Edlund H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and ULMM, Umeå University, Sweden.

Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) signalling has been implicated in patterning,
proliferation and cell differentiation in many organs, including the developing
pancreas. Here we show that the FGF receptors (FGFRs) 1 and 2, together with the 
ligands FGF1, FGF2, FGF4, FGF5, FGF7 and FGF10, are expressed in adult mouse
beta-cells, indicating that FGF signalling may have a role in differentiated
beta-cells. When we perturbed signalling by expressing dominant-negative forms of
the receptors, FGFR1c and FGFR2b, in the pancreas, we found that that mice with
attenuated FGFR1c signalling, but not those with reduced FGFR2b signalling,
develop diabetes with age and exhibit a decreased number of beta-cells, impaired 
expression of glucose transporter 2 and increased proinsulin content in
beta-cells owing to impaired expression of prohormone convertases 1/3 and 2.
These defects are all characteristic of patients with type-2 diabetes. Mutations 
in the homeobox gene Ipf1/Pdx1 are linked to diabetes in both mouse and human. We
also show that Ipf1/Pdx1 is required for the expression of FGFR1 signalling
components in beta-cells, indicating that Ipf1/Pdx1 acts upstream of FGFR1
signalling in beta-cells to maintain proper glucose sensing, insulin processing
and glucose homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1038/35048589 
PMID: 11130726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):860-4.

High constitutive activity of native H3 receptors regulates histamine neurons in 
brain.

Morisset S(1), Rouleau A, Ligneau X, Gbahou F, Tardivel-Lacombe J, Stark H,
Schunack W, Ganellin CR, Schwartz JC, Arrang JM.

Author information: 
(1)Unité de Neurobiologie et Pharmacologie Moléculaire (U.109) de l'INSERM,
Centre Paul Broca, Paris, France.

Some G-protein-coupled receptors display 'constitutive activity', that is,
spontaneous activity in the absence of agonist. This means that a proportion of
the receptor population spontaneously undergoes an allosteric transition, leading
to a conformation that can bind G proteins. The process has been shown to occur
with recombinant receptors expressed at high density, and/or mutated, but also
non-mutated recombinant receptors expressed at physiological concentrations.
Transgenic mice that express a constitutively active mutant of the
beta2-adrenergic receptor display cardiac anomalies; and spontaneous receptor
mutations leading to constitutive activity are at the origin of some human
diseases. Nevertheless, this process has not previously been found to occur in
animals expressing normal levels of receptor. Here we show that two isoforms of
the recombinant rat H3 receptor display high constitutive activity. Using drugs
that abrogate this activity ('inverse agonists') and a drug that opposes both
agonists and inverse agonists ('neutral antagonist'), we show that constitutive
activity of native H3 receptors is present in rodent brain and that it controls
histaminergic neuron activity in vivo. Inverse agonists may therefore find
therapeutic applications, even in the case of diseases involving non-mutated
receptors expressed at normal levels.

DOI: 10.1038/35048583 
PMID: 11130725  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):857-60.

Performance monitoring by the supplementary eye field.

Stuphorn V(1), Taylor TL, Schall JD.

Author information: 
(1)Vanderbilt Vision Research Center, Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt
University, Nashville, Tennessee 37240, USA.

Intelligent behaviour requires self-control based on the consequences of actions.
The countermanding task is designed to study self-control; it requires subjects
to withhold planned movements in response to an imperative stop signal, which
they can do with varying success. In humans, the medial frontal cortex has been
implicated in the supervisory control of action. In monkeys, the supplementary
eye field in the dorsomedial frontal cortex is involved in producing eye
movements, but its precise function has not been clarified. To investigate the
role of the supplementary eye field in the control of eye movements, we recorded 
neural activity in macaque monkeys trained to perform an eye movement
countermanding task. Distinct groups of neurons were active after errors, after
successful withholding of a partially prepared movement, or in association with
reinforcement. These three forms of activation could not be explained by sensory 
or motor factors. Our results lead us to put forward the hypothesis that the
supplementary eye field contributes to monitoring the context and consequences of
eye movements.

DOI: 10.1038/35048576 
PMID: 11130724  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):854-7.

Conservation and elaboration of Hox gene regulation during evolution of the
vertebrate head.

Manzanares M(1), Wada H, Itasaki N, Trainor PA, Krumlauf R, Holland PW.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Developmental Neurobiology, MRC National Institute for Medical
Research, Mill Hill, London, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):778-9, 781.

The comparison of Hox genes between vertebrates and their closest invertebrate
relatives (amphioxus and ascidia) highlights two derived features of Hox genes in
vertebrates: duplication of the Hox gene cluster, and an elaboration of Hox
expression patterns and roles compared with non-vertebrate chordates. We have
investigated how new expression domains and their associated developmental
functions evolved, by testing the cis-regulatory activity of genomic DNA
fragments from the cephalochordate amphioxus Hox cluster in transgenic mouse and 
chick embryos. Here we present evidence for the conservation of cis-regulatory
mechanisms controlling gene expression in the neural tube for half a billion
years of evolution, including a dependence on retinoic acid signalling. We also
identify amphioxus Hox gene regulatory elements that drive spatially localized
expression in vertebrate neural crest cells, in derivatives of neurogenic
placodes and in branchial arches, despite the fact that cephalochordates lack
both neural crest and neurogenic placodes. This implies an elaboration of
cis-regulatory elements in the Hox gene cluster of vertebrate ancestors during
the evolution of craniofacial patterning.

DOI: 10.1038/35048570 
PMID: 11130723  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):850-3.

Fluorescent pigments in corals are photoprotective.

Salih A(1), Larkum A, Cox G, Kühl M, Hoegh-Guldberg O.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, The University of Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia. anya@emu.usyd.edu.au

All reef-forming corals depend on the photosynthesis performed by their algal
symbiont, and such corals are therefore restricted to the photic zone. The
intensity of light in this zone declines over several orders of magnitude--from
high and damaging levels at the surface to extreme shade conditions at the lower 
limit. The ability of corals to tolerate this range implies effective mechanisms 
for light acclimation and adaptation. Here we show that the fluorescent pigments 
(FPs) of corals provide a photobiological system for regulating the light
environment of coral host tissue. Previous studies have suggested that under low 
light, FPs may enhance light availability. We now report that in excessive
sunlight FPs are photoprotective; they achieve this by dissipating excess energy 
at wavelengths of low photosynthetic activity, as well as by reflecting of
visible and infrared light by FP-containing chromatophores. We also show that FPs
enhance the resistance to mass bleaching of corals during periods of heat stress,
which has implications for the effect of environmental stress on the diversity of
reef-building corals, such as enhanced survival of a broad range of corals
allowing maintenance of habitat diversity.

DOI: 10.1038/35048564 
PMID: 11130722  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):847-50.

Analysis of an evolutionary species-area relationship.

Losos JB(1), Schluter D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri 63130, USA. 
losos@biology.wustl.edu

Large islands typically have more species than comparable smaller islands.
Ecological theories, the most influential being the equilibrium theory of island 
biogeography, explain the species-area relationship as the outcome of the effect 
of area on immigration and extinction rates. However, these theories do not apply
to taxa on land masses, including continents and large islands, that generate
most of their species in situ. In this case, species-area relationships should be
driven by higher speciation rates in larger areas, a theory that has never been
quantitatively tested. Here we show that Anolis lizards on Caribbean islands meet
several expectations of the evolutionary theory. Within-island speciation exceeds
immigration as a source of new species on all islands larger than 3,000 km2,
whereas speciation is rare on smaller islands. Above this threshold island size, 
the rate of species proliferation increases with island area, a process that
results principally from the positive effects of area on speciation rate. Also as
expected, the slope of the species-area relationship jumps sharply above the
threshold. Although Anolis lizards have been present on large Caribbean islands
for over 30 million years, there are indications that the current number of
species still falls below the speciation-extinction equilibrium.

DOI: 10.1038/35048558 
PMID: 11130721  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):844-7.

Possible presence of high-pressure ice in cold subducting slabs.

Bina CR(1), Navrotsky A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geological Sciences, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois
60208, USA. craig@earth.northwestern.edu

During the subduction of oceanic lithosphere, water is liberated from minerals by
progressive dehydration reactions and is thought to be critical to several
geologically important processes such as island-arc volcanism, intermediate-depth
seismicity and chemical exchange between the subducting lithosphere and mantle.
Although dehydration reactions would yield supercritical fluid water in most
slabs, we report here that the stable phase of H2O should be solid ice VII in
portions of the coldest slabs. The formation of ice VII as a dehydration product 
would affect the generation, storage, transport and release of water in cold
subduction zones and equilibrium conditions of dehydration would shift,
potentially affecting the depths of seismogenesis and magmagenesis. Large amounts
of pure ice VII might accumulate during subduction and, as a sinking slab warms, 
eventual melting of the ice would release large amounts of water in a small
region over a short period of time, with a significant positive volume change.
Moreover, the decreasing availability of fluid water, owing to the accumulation
of ice VII and its subsequent reaction products in a cooling planetary interior
(for example, in Mars or the future Earth), might eventually lead to a decline in
tectonic activity or its complete cessation.

DOI: 10.1038/35048555 
PMID: 11130720 


34. Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):842-4.

Role of sea surface temperature and soil-moisture feedback in the 1998
Oklahoma-Texas drought.

Hong SY(1), Kalnay E.

Author information: 
(1)National Centers for Environmental Prediction, Camps Springs, Maryland 20746, 
USA.

The drought that affected the US states of Oklahoma and Texas in the summer of
1998 was strong and persistent, with soil moisture reaching levels comparable to 
those of the 1930s 'dust bowl'. Although other effects of the record-strength
1997-98 El Niño were successfully predicted over much of the United States, the
Oklahoma-Texas drought was not. Whereas the response of the tropical atmosphere
to strong anomalies in sea surface temperature is quite predictable, the response
of the extratropical atmosphere is more variable. Here we present results from
mechanistic experiments to clarify the origin and maintenance of this
extratropical climate extreme. In addition to global atmospheric models, we use a
regional model to isolate regional climate feedbacks. We conclude that during
April and May 1998, sea surface temperature anomalies combined with a favourable 
atmospheric circulation to establish the drought. In June-August, the regional
positive feedback associated with lower evaporation and precipitation contributed
substantially to the maintenance of the drought. The drought ended in the autumn,
when stronger large-scale weather systems were able to penetrate the region and
overwhelm the soil-moisture feedback. Our results show the potential for
numerical models including appropriate physical processes to make skillful
predictions of regional climate.

DOI: 10.1038/35048548 
PMID: 11130719 


35. Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):839-41.

Observation of five-fold local symmetry in liquid lead.

Reichert H(1), Klein O, Dosch H, Denk M, Honkimäki V, Lippmann T, Reiter G.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Metallforschung, Stuttgart, Germany.
reichert@dxray.mpi-stuttgart.mpg.de

The local point symmetry of the short-range order in simple monatomic liquids
remains a fundamental open question in condensed-matter science. For more than 40
years it has been conjectured that liquids with centrosymmetric interactions may 
be composed of icosahedral building blocks. But these proposed mobile, randomly
orientated structures have remained experimentally inaccessible owing to the
unavoidable averaging involved in scattering experiments, which can therefore
determine only the isotropic radial distribution function. Here we overcome this 
limitation by capturing liquid fragments at a solid-liquid interface, and
observing the scattering of totally internally reflected (evanescent) X-rays,
which are sensitive only to the liquid structure at the interface. Using this
method, we observe five-fold local symmetry in liquid lead adjacent to a silicon 
wall, and obtain an experimental portrait of the icosahedral fragments that are
predicted to occur in all close-packed monatomic liquids. By shedding new light
on local bond order in disordered structures such as liquids and glasses, these
results should lead to a better microscopic understanding of melting, freezing
and supercooling.

DOI: 10.1038/35048537 
PMID: 11130718 


36. Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):835-9.

Flexible filaments in a flowing soap film as a model for one-dimensional flags in
a two-dimensional wind.

Zhang J(1), Childress S, Libchaber A, Shelley M.

Author information: 
(1)Applied Mathematics Laboratory, Courant Institute, New York University, New
York 10012, USA. jun@cims.nyu.edu

The dynamics of swimming fish and flapping flags involves a complicated
interaction of their deformable shapes with the surrounding fluid flow. Even in
the passive case of a flag, the flag exerts forces on the fluid through its own
inertia and elastic responses, and is likewise acted on by hydrodynamic pressure 
and drag. But such couplings are not well understood. Here we study these
interactions experimentally, using an analogous system of flexible filaments in
flowing soap films. We find that, for a single filament (or 'flag') held at its
upstream end and otherwise unconstrained, there are two distinct, stable
dynamical states. The first is a stretched-straight state: the filament is
immobile and aligned in the flow direction. The existence of this state seems to 
refute the common belief that a flag is always unstable and will flap. The second
is a flapping state: the filament executes a sinuous motion in a manner akin to
the flapping of a flag in the wind. We study further the hydrodynamically coupled
interaction between two such filaments, and demonstrate the existence of four
different dynamical states.

DOI: 10.1038/35048530 
PMID: 11130717 


37. Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):833-5.

Symmetry-induced formation of antivortices in mesoscopic superconductors.

Chibotaru LF(1), Ceulemans A, Bruyndoncx V, Moshchalkov VV.

Author information: 
(1)Afdeling Kwantumchemie, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Belgium.

Recent progress in nanotechnology has stimulated interest in mesoscopic
superconductors as components for quantum computing and cryoelectronics. The
critical parameters for superconductivity (current and field) of a mesoscopic
sample are determined by the pattern of vortices in it, which in turn is
controlled by the symmetry imposed by the shape of the sample (see ref. 1 and
references therein). Hitherto it has been unclear what happens when the number of
vortices is not consistent with the natural symmetry. Here we show that
additional vortex-antivortex pairs nucleate spontaneously so as to preserve the
symmetry of the sample. For example, in a square with three vortices, the
spontaneously generated pair, along with the original three vortices, distribute 
themselves so that the four vortices sit in the four corners, with the antivortex
in the centre. The measured superconducting phase boundary (of superconducting
transition temperature Tc versus magnetic field strength) is in very good
agreement with the calculations, giving direct experimental evidence for these
symmetry-induced vortex-antivortex pairs. Vortex entry into the sample is also
changed: vortices enter a square in fours, with antivortices generated to
preserve the imposed vorticity. The symmetry-induced nucleation of antivortices
is not restricted to superconductors, but should also apply to symmetrically
confined superfluids and Bose-Einstein condensates.

DOI: 10.1038/35048521 
PMID: 11130716 


38. Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):827-32.

Geomagnetic intensity variations over the past 780 kyr obtained from
near-seafloor magnetic anomalies.

Gee JS(1), Cande SC, Hildebrand JA, Donnelly K, Parker RL.

Author information: 
(1)Scripps Institution of Oceanography, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.
jsgee@ucsd.edu

Knowledge of past variations in the intensity of the Earth's magnetic field
provides an important constraint on models of the geodynamo. A record of absolute
palaeointensity for the past 50 kyr has been compiled from archaeomagnetic and
volcanic materials, and relative palaeointensities over the past 800 kyr have
been obtained from sedimentary sequences. But a long-term record of geomagnetic
intensity should also be carried by the thermoremanence of the oceanic crust Here
we show that near-seafloor magnetic anomalies recorded over the southern East
Pacific Rise are well correlated with independent estimates of geomagnetic
intensity during the past 780 kyr. Moreover, the pattern of absolute
palaeointensity of seafloor glass samples from the same area agrees with the
well-documented dipole intensity pattern for the past 50 kyr. A comparison of
palaeointensities derived from seafloor glass samples with global intensity
variations thus allows us to estimate the ages of surficial lava flows in this
region. The record of geomagnetic intensity preserved in the oceanic crust should
provide a higher-time-resolution record of crustal accretion processes at
mid-ocean ridges than has previously been obtainable.

DOI: 10.1038/35048513 
PMID: 11130715 


39. Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):823-6.

Sequence and analysis of chromosome 5 of the plant Arabidopsis thaliana.

Tabata S(1), Kaneko T, Nakamura Y, Kotani H, Kato T, Asamizu E, Miyajima N,
Sasamoto S, Kimura T, Hosouchi T, Kawashima K, Kohara M, Matsumoto M, Matsuno A, 
Muraki A, Nakayama S, Nakazaki N, Naruo K, Okumura S, Shinpo S, Takeuchi C, Wada 
T, Watanabe A, Yamada M, Yasuda M, Sato S, de la Bastide M, Huang E, Spiegel L,
Gnoj L, O'Shaughnessy A, Preston R, Habermann K, Murray J, Johnson D, Rohlfing T,
Nelson J, Stoneking T, Pepin K, Spieth J, Sekhon M, Armstrong J, Becker M, Belter
E, Cordum H, Cordes M, Courtney L, Courtney W, Dante M, Du H, Edwards J, Fryman
J, Haakensen B, Lamar E, Latreille P, Leonard S, Meyer R, Mulvaney E, Ozersky P, 
Riley A, Strowmatt C, Wagner-McPherson C, Wollam A, Yoakum M, Bell M, Dedhia N,
Parnell L, Shah R, Rodriguez M, See LH, Vil D, Baker J, Kirchoff K, Toth K, King 
L, Bahret A, Miller B, Marra M, Martienssen R, McCombie WR, Wilson RK, Murphy G, 
Bancroft I, Volckaert G, Wambutt R, Düsterhöft A, Stiekema W, Pohl T, Entian KD, 
Terryn N, Hartley N, Bent E, Johnson S, Langham SA, McCullagh B, Robben J,
Grymonprez B, Zimmermann W, Ramsperger U, Wedler H, Balke K, Wedler E, Peters S, 
van Staveren M, Dirkse W, Mooijman P, Lankhorst RK, Weitzenegger T, Bothe G, Rose
M, Hauf J, Berneiser S, Hempel S, Feldpausch M, Lamberth S, Villarroel R, Gielen 
J, Ardiles W, Bents O, Lemcke K, Kolesov G, Mayer K, Rudd S, Schoof H, Schueller 
C, Zaccaria P, Mewes HW, Bevan M, Fransz P; Kazusa DNA Research Institute; Cold
Spring Harbor and Washington University in St Louis Sequencing Consortium;
European Union Arabidopsis Genome Sequencing Consortium.

Author information: 
(1)Kazusa DNA Research Institute, Kisarazu, Chiba, Japan.

The genome of the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana has been sequenced by an
international collaboration, The Arabidopsis Genome Initiative. Here we report
the complete sequence of chromosome 5. This chromosome is 26 megabases long; it
is the second largest Arabidopsis chromosome and represents 21% of the sequenced 
regions of the genome. The sequence of chromosomes 2 and 4 have been reported
previously and that of chromosomes 1 and 3, together with an analysis of the
complete genome sequence, are reported in this issue. Analysis of the sequence of
chromosome 5 yields further insights into centromere structure and the sequence
determinants of heterochromatin condensation. The 5,874 genes encoded on
chromosome 5 reveal several new functions in plants, and the patterns of gene
organization provide insights into the mechanisms and extent of genome evolution 
in plants.

DOI: 10.1038/35048507 
PMID: 11130714  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):820-2.

Sequence and analysis of chromosome 3 of the plant Arabidopsis thaliana.

Salanoubat M(1), Lemcke K, Rieger M, Ansorge W, Unseld M, Fartmann B, Valle G,
Blöcker H, Perez-Alonso M, Obermaier B, Delseny M, Boutry M, Grivell LA, Mache R,
Puigdomènech P, De Simone V, Choisne N, Artiguenave F, Robert C, Brottier P,
Wincker P, Cattolico L, Weissenbach J, Saurin W, Quétier F, Schäfer M,
Müller-Auer S, Gabel C, Fuchs M, Benes V, Wurmbach E, Drzonek H, Erfle H, Jordan 
N, Bangert S, Wiedelmann R, Kranz H, Voss H, Holland R, Brandt P, Nyakatura G,
Vezzi A, D'Angelo M, Pallavicini A, Toppo S, Simionati B, Conrad A, Hornischer K,
Kauer G, Löhnert TH, Nordsiek G, Reichelt J, Scharfe M, Schön O, Bargues M, Terol
J, Climent J, Navarro P, Collado C, Perez-Perez A, Ottenwälder B, Duchemin D,
Cooke R, Laudie M, Berger-Llauro C, Purnelle B, Masuy D, de Haan M, Maarse AC,
Alcaraz JP, Cottet A, Casacuberta E, Monfort A, Argiriou A, flores M, Liguori R, 
Vitale D, Mannhaupt G, Haase D, Schoof H, Rudd S, Zaccaria P, Mewes HW, Mayer KF,
Kaul S, Town CD, Koo HL, Tallon LJ, Jenkins J, Rooney T, Rizzo M, Walts A,
Utterback T, Fujii CY, Shea TP, Creasy TH, Haas B, Maiti R, Wu D, Peterson J, Van
Aken S, Pai G, Militscher J, Sellers P, Gill JE, Feldblyum TV, Preuss D, Lin X,
Nierman WC, Salzberg SL, White O, Venter JC, Fraser CM, Kaneko T, Nakamura Y,
Sato S, Kato T, Asamizu E, Sasamoto S, Kimura T, Idesawa K, Kawashima K, Kishida 
Y, Kiyokawa C, Kohara M, Matsumoto M, Matsuno A, Muraki A, Nakayama S, Nakazaki
N, Shinpo S, Takeuchi C, Wada T, Watanabe A, Yamada M, Yasuda M, Tabata S;
European Union Chromosome 3 Arabidopsis Sequencing Consortium; Institute for
Genomic Research; Kazusa DNA Research Institute.

Author information: 
(1)Genoscope and CNRS FRE2231, Evry, France. salanou@genoscope. cns.fr

Arabidopsis thaliana is an important model system for plant biologists. In 1996
an international collaboration (the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative) was formed to 
sequence the whole genome of Arabidopsis and in 1999 the sequence of the first
two chromosomes was reported. The sequence of the last three chromosomes and an
analysis of the whole genome are reported in this issue. Here we present the
sequence of chromosome 3, organized into four sequence segments (contigs). The
two largest (13.5 and 9.2 Mb) correspond to the top (long) and the bottom (short)
arms of chromosome 3, and the two small contigs are located in the genetically
defined centromere. This chromosome encodes 5,220 of the roughly 25,500 predicted
protein-coding genes in the genome. About 20% of the predicted proteins have
significant homology to proteins in eukaryotic genomes for which the complete
sequence is available, pointing to important conserved cellular functions among
eukaryotes.

DOI: 10.1038/35048706 
PMID: 11130713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):816-20.

Sequence and analysis of chromosome 1 of the plant Arabidopsis thaliana.

Theologis A(1), Ecker JR, Palm CJ, Federspiel NA, Kaul S, White O, Alonso J,
Altafi H, Araujo R, Bowman CL, Brooks SY, Buehler E, Chan A, Chao Q, Chen H,
Cheuk RF, Chin CW, Chung MK, Conn L, Conway AB, Conway AR, Creasy TH, Dewar K,
Dunn P, Etgu P, Feldblyum TV, Feng J, Fong B, Fujii CY, Gill JE, Goldsmith AD,
Haas B, Hansen NF, Hughes B, Huizar L, Hunter JL, Jenkins J, Johnson-Hopson C,
Khan S, Khaykin E, Kim CJ, Koo HL, Kremenetskaia I, Kurtz DB, Kwan A, Lam B,
Langin-Hooper S, Lee A, Lee JM, Lenz CA, Li JH, Li Y, Lin X, Liu SX, Liu ZA,
Luros JS, Maiti R, Marziali A, Militscher J, Miranda M, Nguyen M, Nierman WC,
Osborne BI, Pai G, Peterson J, Pham PK, Rizzo M, Rooney T, Rowley D, Sakano H,
Salzberg SL, Schwartz JR, Shinn P, Southwick AM, Sun H, Tallon LJ, Tambunga G,
Toriumi MJ, Town CD, Utterback T, Van Aken S, Vaysberg M, Vysotskaia VS, Walker
M, Wu D, Yu G, Fraser CM, Venter JC, Davis RW.

Author information: 
(1)Plant Gene Expression Center/USDA-U.C. Berkley, Albany, California 94710, USA.
theo@nature.berkeley.edu

The genome of the flowering plant Arabidopsis thaliana has five chromosomes. Here
we report the sequence of the largest, chromosome 1, in two contigs of around
14.2 and 14.6 megabases. The contigs extend from the telomeres to the centromeric
borders, regions rich in transposons, retrotransposons and repetitive elements
such as the 180-base-pair repeat. The chromosome represents 25% of the genome and
contains about 6,850 open reading frames, 236 transfer RNAs (tRNAs) and 12 small 
nuclear RNAs. There are two clusters of tRNA genes at different places on the
chromosome. One consists of 27 tRNA(Pro) genes and the other contains 27 tandem
repeats of tRNA(Tyr)-tRNA(Tyr)-tRNA(Ser) genes. Chromosome 1 contains about 300
gene families with clustered duplications. There are also many repeat elements,
representing 8% of the sequence.

DOI: 10.1038/35048500 
PMID: 11130712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):796-815.

Analysis of the genome sequence of the flowering plant Arabidopsis thaliana.

Arabidopsis Genome Initiative.

Comment in
    Nature. 2001 Mar 15;410(6826):299.

The flowering plant Arabidopsis thaliana is an important model system for
identifying genes and determining their functions. Here we report the analysis of
the genomic sequence of Arabidopsis. The sequenced regions cover 115.4 megabases 
of the 125-megabase genome and extend into centromeric regions. The evolution of 
Arabidopsis involved a whole-genome duplication, followed by subsequent gene loss
and extensive local gene duplications, giving rise to a dynamic genome enriched
by lateral gene transfer from a cyanobacterial-like ancestor of the plastid. The 
genome contains 25,498 genes encoding proteins from 11,000 families, similar to
the functional diversity of Drosophila and Caenorhabditis elegans--the other
sequenced multicellular eukaryotes. Arabidopsis has many families of new proteins
but also lacks several common protein families, indicating that the sets of
common proteins have undergone differential expansion and contraction in the
three multicellular eukaryotes. This is the first complete genome sequence of a
plant and provides the foundations for more comprehensive comparison of conserved
processes in all eukaryotes, identifying a wide range of plant-specific gene
functions and establishing rapid systematic ways to identify genes for crop
improvement.

DOI: 10.1038/35048692 
PMID: 11130711  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):745-50.

Structure of the bacteriophage phi29 DNA packaging motor.

Simpson AA(1), Tao Y, Leiman PG, Badasso MO, He Y, Jardine PJ, Olson NH, Morais
MC, Grimes S, Anderson DL, Baker TS, Rossmann MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana 
47907-1392, USA.

Motors generating mechanical force, powered by the hydrolysis of ATP, translocate
double-stranded DNA into preformed capsids (proheads) of bacterial viruses and
certain animal viruses. Here we describe the motor that packages the
double-stranded DNA of the Bacillus subtilis bacteriophage phi29 into a precursor
capsid. We determined the structure of the head-tail connector--the central
component of the phi29 DNA packaging motor--to 3.2 A resolution by means of X-ray
crystallography. We then fitted the connector into the electron densities of the 
prohead and of the partially packaged prohead as determined using cryo-electron
microscopy and image reconstruction analysis. Our results suggest that the
prohead plus dodecameric connector, prohead RNA, viral ATPase and DNA comprise a 
rotary motor with the head-prohead RNA-ATPase complex acting as a stator, the DNA
acting as a spindle, and the connector as a ball-race. The helical nature of the 
DNA converts the rotary action of the connector into translation of the DNA.

DOI: 10.1038/35047129 
PMCID: PMC4151180
PMID: 11130079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):740-5.

A Toll-like receptor recognizes bacterial DNA.

Hemmi H(1), Takeuchi O, Kawai T, Kaisho T, Sato S, Sanjo H, Matsumoto M, Hoshino 
K, Wagner H, Takeda K, Akira S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Host Defense, Research Institute for Microbial Diseases, Osaka
University and Core Research for Evolutional Science and Technology, Japan
Science and Technology Corporation, Suita.

Erratum in
    Nature 2001 Feb 1;409(6820):646.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):659-60.

DNA from bacteria has stimulatory effects on mammalian immune cells, which depend
on the presence of unmethylated CpG dinucleotides in the bacterial DNA. In
contrast, mammalian DNA has a low frequency of CpG dinucleotides, and these are
mostly methylated; therefore, mammalian DNA does not have immuno-stimulatory
activity. CpG DNA induces a strong T-helper-1-like inflammatory response.
Accumulating evidence has revealed the therapeutic potential of CpG DNA as
adjuvants for vaccination strategies for cancer, allergy and infectious diseases.
Despite its promising clinical use, the molecular mechanism by which CpG DNA
activates immune cells remains unclear. Here we show that cellular response to
CpG DNA is mediated by a Toll-like receptor, TLR9. TLR9-deficient (TLR9-/-) mice 
did not show any response to CpG DNA, including proliferation of splenocytes,
inflammatory cytokine production from macrophages and maturation of dendritic
cells. TLR9-/- mice showed resistance to the lethal effect of CpG DNA without any
elevation of serum pro-inflammatory cytokine levels. The in vivo CpG-DNA-mediated
T-helper type-1 response was also abolished in TLR9-/- mice. Thus, vertebrate
immune systems appear to have evolved a specific Toll-like receptor that
distinguishes bacterial DNA from self-DNA.

DOI: 10.1038/35047123 
PMID: 11130078  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):735-40.

InsP4 facilitates store-operated calcium influx by inhibition of InsP3
5-phosphatase.

Hermosura MC(1), Takeuchi H, Fleig A, Riley AM, Potter BV, Hirata M, Penner R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cell and Molecular Signaling, Center for Biomedical Research and
John A Burns School of Medicine at The University of Hawaii, Honolulu 96813, USA.

Receptor-mediated generation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP3) initiates
Ca2+ release from intracellular stores and the subsequent activation of
store-operated calcium influx. InsP3 is metabolized within seconds by
5-phosphatase and 3-kinase, yielding Ins(1,4)P2 and inositol
1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate (InsP4), respectively. Some studies have suggested that
InsP4 controls Ca2+ influx in combination with InsP3 (refs 3 and 4), but another 
study did not find the same result. Some of the apparent conflicts between these 
previous studies have been resolved; however, the physiological function of InsP4
remains elusive. Here we have investigated the function of InsP4 in Ca2+ influx
in the mast cell line RBL-2H3, and we show that InsP4 inhibits InsP3 metabolism
through InsP3 5-phosphatase, thereby facilitating the activation of the
store-operated Ca2+ current I(CRAC) (ref. 9). Physiologically, this mechanism
opens a discriminatory time window for coincidence detection that enables
selective facilitation of Ca2+ influx by appropriately timed low-level receptor
stimulation. At higher concentrations, InsP4 acts as an inhibitor of InsP3
receptors, enabling InsP4 to act as a potent bi-modal regulator of cellular
sensitivity to InsP3, which provides both facilitatory and inhibitory feedback on
Ca2+ signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/35047115 
PMID: 11130077  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):732-5.

IRSp53 is an essential intermediate between Rac and WAVE in the regulation of
membrane ruffling.

Miki H(1), Yamaguchi H, Suetsugu S, Takenawa T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Institute of Medical Science, University of Tokyo,
and CREST, Japan Science and Technology Corporation.

Neural Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (N-WASP) functions in several
intracellular events including filopodium formation, vesicle transport and
movement of Shigella frexneri and vaccinia virus, by stimulating rapid actin
polymerization through the Arp2/3 complex. N-WASP is regulated by the direct
binding of Cdc42 (refs 7, 8), which exposes the domain in N-WASP that activates
the Arp2/3 complex. A WASP-related protein, WAVE/Scar, functions in Rac-induced
membrane ruffling; however, Rac does not bind directly to WAVE, raising the
question of how WAVE is regulated by Rac. Here we demonstrate that IRSp53, a
substrate for insulin receptor with unknown function, is the 'missing link'
between Rac and WAVE. Activated Rac binds to the amino terminus of IRSp53, and
carboxy-terminal Src-homology-3 domain of IRSp53 binds to WAVE to form a
trimolecular complex. From studies of ectopic expression, we found that IRSp53 is
essential for Rac to induce membrane ruffling, probably because it recruits WAVE,
which stimulates actin polymerization mediated by the Arp2/3 complex.

DOI: 10.1038/35047107 
PMID: 11130076  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):727-31.

Adherens junctions and beta-catenin-mediated cell signalling in a non-metazoan
organism.

Grimson MJ(1), Coates JC, Reynolds JP, Shipman M, Blanton RL, Harwood AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biological Sciences, Texas Tech University, Lubbock 79409, USA.

Mechanical forces between cells have a principal role in the organization of
animal tissues. Adherens junctions are an important component of these tissues,
connecting cells through their actin cytoskeleton and allowing the assembly of
tensile structures. At least one adherens junction protein, beta-catenin, also
acts as a signalling molecule, directly regulating gene expression. To date,
adherens junctions have only been detected in metazoa, and therefore we looked
for them outside the animal kingdom to examine their evolutionary origins. The
non-metazoan Dictyostelium discoideum forms a multicellular, differentiated
structure. Here we describe the discovery of actin-associated intercellular
junctions in Dictyostelium. We have isolated a gene encoding a beta-catenin
homologue, aardvark, which is a component of the junctional complex, and,
independently, is required for cell signalling. Our discovery of adherens
junctions outside the animal kingdom shows that the dual role of beta-catenin in 
cell-cell adhesion and cell signalling evolved before the origins of metazoa.

DOI: 10.1038/35047099 
PMID: 11130075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):723-7.

Tyrosine-kinase-dependent recruitment of RGS12 to the N-type calcium channel.

Schiff ML(1), Siderovski DP, Jordan JD, Brothers G, Snow B, De Vries L, Ortiz DF,
Diversé-Pierluissi M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York
10029, USA.

Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)B receptors couple to Go to inhibit N-type calcium 
channels in embryonic chick dorsal root ganglion neurons. The voltage-independent
inhibition, mediated by means of a tyrosine-kinase pathway, is transient and
lasts up to 100 seconds. Inhibition of endogenous RGS12, a member of the family
of regulators of G-protein signalling, selectively alters the time course of
voltage-independent inhibition. The RGS12 protein, in addition to the RGS domain,
contains PDZ and PTB domains. Fusion proteins containing the PTB domain of RGS12 
alter the rate of termination of the GABA(B) signal, whereas the PDZ or RGS
domains of RGS 12 have no observable effects. Using primary dorsal root ganglion 
neurons in culture, here we show an endogenous agonist-induced
tyrosine-kinase-dependent complex of RGS12 and the calcium channel. These results
indicate that RGS12 is a multifunctional protein capable of direct interactions
through its PTB domain with the tyrosine-phosphorylated calcium channel.
Recruitment of RGS proteins to G-protein effectors may represent an additional
mechanism for signal termination in G-protein-coupled pathways.

DOI: 10.1038/35047093 
PMID: 11130074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):720-3.

Mu-opioid receptor desensitization by beta-arrestin-2 determines morphine
tolerance but not dependence.

Bohn LM(1), Gainetdinov RR, Lin FT, Lefkowitz RJ, Caron MG.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute Laboratories, Department of Cell Biology, Duke
University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.

Morphine is a powerful pain reliever, but also a potent inducer of tolerance and 
dependence. The development of opiate tolerance occurs on continued use of the
drug such that the amount of drug required to elicit pain relief must be
increased to compensate for diminished responsiveness. In many systems, decreased
responsiveness to agonists has been correlated with the desensitization of
G-protein-coupled receptors. In vitro evidence indicates that this process
involves phosphorylation of G-protein-coupled receptors and subsequent binding of
regulatory proteins called beta-arrestins. Using a knockout mouse lacking
beta-arrestin-2 (beta arr2-/-), we have assessed the contribution of
desensitization of the mu-opioid receptor to the development of morphine
antinociceptive tolerance and the subsequent onset of physical dependence. Here
we show that in mice lacking beta-arrestin-2, desensitization of the mu-opioid
receptor does not occur after chronic morphine treatment, and that these animals 
fail to develop antinociceptive tolerance. However, the deletion of
beta-arrestin-2 does not prevent the chronic morphine-induced up-regulation of
adenylyl cyclase activity, a cellular marker of dependence, and the mutant mice
still become physically dependent on the drug.

DOI: 10.1038/35047086 
PMID: 11130073  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):716-20.

The ELF3 zeitnehmer regulates light signalling to the circadian clock.

McWatters HG(1), Bastow RM, Hall A, Millar AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Warwick, Conventry, UK.

The circadian system regulates 24-hour biological rhythms and seasonal rhythms,
such as flowering. Long-day flowering plants like Arabidopsis thaliana, measure
day length with a rhythm that is not reset at lights-off, whereas short-day
plants measure night length on the basis of circadian rhythm of light sensitivity
that is set from dusk, early flowering 3 (elf3) mutants of Arabidopsis are
aphotoperiodic and exhibit light-conditional arrhythmias. Here we show that the
elf3-7 mutant retains oscillator function in the light but blunts circadian
gating of CAB gene activation, indicating that deregulated phototransduction may 
mask rhythmicity. Furthermore, elf3 mutations confer the resetting pattern of
short-day photoperiodism, indicating that gating of phototransduction may control
resetting. Temperature entrainment can bypass the requirement for normal ELF3
function for the oscillator and partially restore rhythmic CAB expression.
Therefore, ELF3 specifically affects light input to the oscillator, similar to
its function in gating CAB activation, allowing oscillator progression past a
light-sensitive phase in the subjective evening. ELF3 provides experimental
demonstration of the zeitnehmer ('time-taker') concept.

DOI: 10.1038/35047079 
PMID: 11130072  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):713-6.

The HIC signalling pathway links CO2 perception to stomatal development.

Gray JE(1), Holroyd GH, van der Lee FM, Bahrami AR, Sijmons PC, Woodward FI,
Schuch W, Hetherington AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, University of Sheffield,
UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):656-7.

Stomatal pores on the leaf surface control both the uptake of CO2 for
photosynthesis and the loss of water during transpiration. Since the industrial
revolution, decreases in stomatal numbers in parallel with increases in
atmospheric CO2 concentration have provided evidence of plant responses to
changes in CO2 levels caused by human activity. This inverse correlation between 
stomatal density and CO2 concentration also holds for fossil material from the
past 400 million years and has provided clues to the causes of global extinction 
events. Here we report the identification of the Arabidopsis gene HIC (for high
carbon dioxide), which encodes a negative regulator of stomatal development that 
responds to CO2 concentration. This gene encodes a putative 3-keto acyl coenzyme 
A synthase--an enzyme involved in the synthesis of very-long-chain fatty acids.
Mutant hic plants exhibit up to a 42% increase in stomatal density in response to
a doubling of CO2. Our results identify a gene involved in the signal
transduction pathway responsible for controlling stomatal numbers at elevated
CO2.

DOI: 10.1038/35047071 
PMID: 11130071  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):708-13.

Mitochondrial genome variation and the origin of modern humans.

Ingman M(1), Kaessmann H, Pääbo S, Gyllensten U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Pathology, Section of Medical Genetics, University 
of Uppsala, Sweden.

Erratum in
    Nature 2001 Mar 29;410(6828):611.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):652-3.

The analysis of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) has been a potent tool in our
understanding of human evolution, owing to characteristics such as high copy
number, apparent lack of recombination, high substitution rate and maternal mode 
of inheritance. However, almost all studies of human evolution based on mtDNA
sequencing have been confined to the control region, which constitutes less than 
7% of the mitochondrial genome. These studies are complicated by the extreme
variation in substitution rate between sites, and the consequence of parallel
mutations causing difficulties in the estimation of genetic distance and making
phylogenetic inferences questionable. Most comprehensive studies of the human
mitochondrial molecule have been carried out through restriction-fragment length 
polymorphism analysis, providing data that are ill suited to estimations of
mutation rate and therefore the timing of evolutionary events. Here, to improve
the information obtained from the mitochondrial molecule for studies of human
evolution, we describe the global mtDNA diversity in humans based on analyses of 
the complete mtDNA sequence of 53 humans of diverse origins. Our mtDNA data, in
comparison with those of a parallel study of the Xq13.3 region in the same
individuals, provide a concurrent view on human evolution with respect to the age
of modern humans.

DOI: 10.1038/35047064 
PMID: 11130070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):705-8.

The smallest known non-avian theropod dinosaur.

Xu X(1), Zhou Z, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)The Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing, People's Republic of China. xxu@midwest.com.cn

Non-avian dinosaurs are mostly medium to large-sized animals, and to date all
known mature specimens are larger than the most primitive bird, Archaeopteryx.
Here we report on a new dromaeosaurid dinosaur, Microraptor zhaoianus gen. et sp.
nov., from the Early Cretaceous Jiufotang Formation of Liaoning, China. This is
the first mature non-avian dinosaur to be found that is smaller than
Archaeopteryx, and it eliminates the size disparity between the earliest birds
and their closest non-avian theropod relatives. The more bird-like teeth, the
Rahonavis-like ischium and the small number of caudal vertebrae of Microraptor
are unique among dromaeosaurids and improve our understanding of the
morphological transition to birds. The nearly completely articulated foot shows
features, such as distally positioned digit I, slender and recurved pedal claws, 
and elongated penultimate phalanges, that are comparable to those of arboreal
birds. The discovery of these in non-avian theropods provides new insights for
studying the palaeoecology of some bird-like theropod dinosaurs.

DOI: 10.1038/35047056 
PMID: 11130069  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):701-4.

Evidence from Sardinian basalt geochemistry for recycling of plume heads into the
Earth's mantle.

Gasperini D(1), Blichert-Toft J, Bosch D, Del Moro A, Macera P, Télouk P,
Albarède F.

Author information: 
(1)Ecole Normale Supérieure, Lyon, France.

Up to 10 per cent of the ocean floor consists of plateaux--regions of unusually
thick oceanic crust thought to be formed by the heads of mantle plumes. Given the
ubiquitous presence of recycled oceanic crust in the mantle source of hotspot
basalts, it follows that plateau material should also be an important mantle
constituent. Here we show that the geochemistry of the Pleistocene basalts from
Logudoro, Sardinia, is compatible with the remelting of ancient ocean plateau
material that has been recycled into the mantle. The Sr, Nd and Hf isotope
compositions of these basalts do not show the signature of pelagic sediments. The
basalts' low CaO/Al2O3 and Ce/Pb ratios, their unradiogenic 206Pb and 208Pb, and 
their Sr, Ba, Eu and Pb excesses indicate that their mantle source contains
ancient gabbros formed initially by plagioclase accumulation, typical of plateau 
material. Also, the high Th/U ratios of the mantle source resemble those of plume
magmas. Geochemically, the Logudoro basalts resemble those from Pitcairn Island, 
which contain the controversial EM-1 component that has been interpreted as
arising from a mantle source sprinkled with remains of pelagic sediments. We
argue, instead, that the EM-1 source from these two localities is essentially
free of sedimentary material, the geochemical characteristics of these lavas
being better explained by the presence of recycled oceanic plateaux. The storage 
of plume heads in the deep mantle through time offers a convenient explanation
for the persistence of chemical and mineralogical layering in the mantle.

DOI: 10.1038/35047049 
PMID: 11130068 


55. Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):698-701.

Evidence for decoupling of atmospheric CO2 and global climate during the
Phanerozoic eon.

Veizer J(1), Godderis Y, François LM.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Geologie, Mineralogie und Geophysik, Ruhr Universität, Bochum,
Germany. veizer@science.uottawa.ca

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):651-2.

Atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations are believed to drive climate changes
from glacial to interglacial modes, although geological and astronomical
mechanisms have been invoked as ultimate causes. Additionally, it is unclear
whether the changes between cold and warm modes should be regarded as a global
phenomenon, affecting tropical and high-latitude temperatures alike, or if they
are better described as an expansion and contraction of the latitudinal climate
zones, keeping equatorial temperatures approximately constant. Here we present a 
reconstruction of tropical sea surface temperatures throughout the Phanerozoic
eon (the past approximately 550 Myr) from our database of oxygen isotopes in
calcite and aragonite shells. The data indicate large oscillations of tropical
sea surface temperatures in phase with the cold-warm cycles, thus favouring the
idea of climate variability as a global phenomenon. But our data conflict with a 
temperature reconstruction using an energy balance model that is forced by
reconstructed atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations. The results can be
reconciled if atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations were not the principal
driver of climate variability on geological timescales for at least one-third of 
the Phanerozoic eon, or if the reconstructed carbon dioxide concentrations are
not reliable.

DOI: 10.1038/35047044 
PMID: 11130067  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):695-8.

Direct observation of molecular cooperativity near the glass transition.

Russell EV(1), Israeloff NE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Center for Interdisciplinary Research on Complex
Systems, Northeastern University, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

The increasingly sluggish response of a supercooled liquid as it nears its glass 
transition (for example, refrigerated honey) is prototypical of glassy dynamics
found in proteins, neural networks and superconductors. The notion that molecules
rearrange cooperatively has long been postulated to explain diverging relaxation 
times and broadened (non-exponential) response functions near the glass
transition. Recently, cooperativity was observed and analysed in colloid glasses 
and in simulations of binary liquids well above the glass transition. But
nanometre-scale studies of cooperativity at the molecular glass transition are
lacking. Important issues to be resolved include the precise form of the
cooperativity and its length scale, and whether the broadened response is
intrinsic to individual cooperative regions, or arises only from heterogeneity in
an ensemble of such regions. Here we describe direct observations of molecular
cooperativity near the glass transition in polyvinylacetate (PVAc), using
nanometre-scale probing of dielectric fluctuations. Molecular clusters switched
spontaneously among two to four distinct configurations, producing random
telegraph noise. Our analysis of these noise signals and their power spectra
reveals that individual clusters exhibit transient dynamical heterogeneity and
non-exponential kinetics.

DOI: 10.1038/35047037 
PMID: 11130066 


57. Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):692-5.

Direct observation of growth and collapse of a Bose-Einstein condensate with
attractive interactions.

Gerton JM(1), Strekalov D, Prodan I, Hulet RG.

Author information: 
(1)Physics and Astronomy Department and Rice Quantum Institute, Rice University, 
Houston, Texas 77251, USA.

Quantum theory predicts that Bose-Einstein condensation of a spatially
homogeneous gas with attractive interactions is precluded by a conventional phase
transition into either a liquid or solid. When confined to a trap, however, such 
a condensate can form, provided that its occupation number does not exceed a
limiting value. The stability limit is determined by a balance between the
self-attractive forces and a repulsion that arises from position-momentum
uncertainty under conditions of spatial confinement. Near the stability limit,
self-attraction can overwhelm the repulsion, causing the condensate to collapse. 
Growth of the condensate is therefore punctuated by intermittent collapses that
are triggered by either macroscopic quantum tunnelling or thermal fluctuation.
Previous observations of growth and collapse dynamics have been hampered by the
stochastic nature of these mechanisms. Here we report direct observations of the 
growth and subsequent collapse of a 7Li condensate with attractive interactions, 
using phase-contrast imaging. The success of the measurement lies in our ability 
to reduce the stochasticity in the dynamics by controlling the initial number of 
condensate atoms using a two-photon transition to a diatomic molecular state.

DOI: 10.1038/35047030 
PMID: 11130065 


58. Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):689-92.

An optical counterpart to the anomalous X-ray pulsar 4U0142+61.

Hulleman F(1), van Kerkwijk MH, Kulkarni SR.

Author information: 
(1)Astronomical Institute, Utrecht University, The Netherlands.
f.hulleman@astro.uu.nl

The energy source of the anomalous X-ray pulsars (AXPs) is not understood, hence 
their designation as anomalous. Unlike binary X-ray pulsars, no companions are
seen, so the energy cannot be supplied by accretion of matter from a companion
star. The loss of rotational energy, which powers radio pulsars, is insufficient 
to power AXPs. Two models are generally considered: accretion from a large disk
left over from the birth process, or decay of a very strong magnetic field
(10(15) G) associated with a 'magnetar'. The lack of counterparts at other
wavelengths has hampered progress in our understanding of these objects. Here we 
report deep optical observations of the field around 4U0142+61, which is the
brightest AXP in X-rays. The source has no associated supernova remnant, which,
together with its spin-down timescale of approximately 10(5) yr (ref. 5),
suggests that it may be relatively old. We find an object with peculiar optical
colours at the position of the X-ray source, and argue that it is the optical
counterpart. The optical emission is too faint to admit the presence of a large
accretion disk, but may be consistent with magnetospheric emission from a
magnetar.

DOI: 10.1038/35047024 
PMID: 11130064 


59. Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):682-8.

Crystal structure of Rac1 in complex with the guanine nucleotide exchange region 
of Tiam1.

Worthylake DK(1), Rossman KL, Sondek J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, The
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 27599, USA.

The principal guanine nucleotide exchange factors for Rho family G proteins
contain tandem Dbl-homology (DH) and pleckstrin-homology (PH) domains that
catalyse nucleotide exchange and the activation of G proteins. Here we have
determined the crystal structure of the DH and PH domains of the T-lymphoma
invasion and metastasis factor 1 (Tiam1) protein in complex with its cognate Rho 
family G protein, Rac1. The two switch regions of Rac1 are stabilized in
conformations that disrupt both magnesium binding and guanine nucleotide
interaction. The resulting cleft in Rac1 is devoid of nucleotide and highly
exposed to solvent. The PH domain of Tiam1 does not contact Rac1, and the
position and orientation of the PH domain is markedly altered relative to the
structure of the uncomplexed, GTPase-free DH/PH element from Sos1. The Tiam1/Rac1
structure highlights the interactions that catalyse nucleotide exchange on Rho
family G proteins, and illustrates structural determinants dictating specificity 
between individual Rho family members and their associated Dbl-related guanine
nucleotide exchange factors.

DOI: 10.1038/35047014 
PMID: 11130063  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):675-81.

Fossiliferous Lana'i deposits formed by multiple events rather than a single
giant tsunami.

Rubin KH(1), Fletcher CH 3rd, Sherman C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, SOEST, University of Hawaii, Honolulu
96822, USA. krubin@soest.hawaii.edu

Giant tsunamis, generated by submarine landslides in the Hawaiian Islands, have
been thought to be responsible for the deposition of chaotic gravels high on the 
southern coastal slopes of the islands of Lana'i and Moloka'i, Hawaii. Here we
investigate this hypothesis, using uranium-thorium dating of the Hulopoe gravel
(on Lana'i) and a study of stratigraphic relationships, such as facies changes
and hiatuses, within the deposit. The Hulopoe gravel contains corals of two age
groups, representing marine isotope stages 5e and 7 (approximately 135,000 and
240,000 years ago, respectively), with significant geographical and stratigraphic
ordering. We show that the Hulopoe gravel was formed by multiple depositional
events, separated by considerable periods of time, thus invalidating the main
premise of the 'giant wave' hypothesis. Instead, the gravels were probably
deposited during interglacial periods (when sea level was relatively high) by
typical Hawaiian shoreline processes such as seasonal wave patterns, storm events
and possibly 'normal' tsunamis, and reached their present height by uplift of
Lana'i.

DOI: 10.1038/35047008 
PMID: 11130062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


61. Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):669-73.

Granite magma formation, transport and emplacement in the Earth's crust.

Petford N(1), Cruden AR, McCaffrey KJ, Vigneresse JL.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Earth and Environmental Science Research, Kingston University,
Surrey, UK. n.pet@kingston.ac.uk

The origin of granites was once a question solely for petrologists and
geochemists. But in recent years a consensus has emerged that recognizes the
essential role of deformation in the segregation, transport and emplacement of
silica-rich melts in the continental crust. Accepted petrological models are
being questioned, either because they require unrealistic rheological behaviours 
of rocks and magmas, or because they do not satisfactorily explain the available 
structural or geophysical data. Provided flow is continuous, mechanical
considerations suggest that--far from being geologically sluggish--granite
magmatism is a rapid, dynamic process operating at timescales of < or = 100,000
years, irrespective of tectonic setting.

DOI: 10.1038/35047000 
PMID: 11130061 


62. Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):613-5.

The PSI-H subunit of photosystem I is essential for state transitions in plant
photosynthesis.

Lunde C(1), Jensen PE, Haldrup A, Knoetzel J, Scheller HV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Biology, The Royal Veterinary and Agricultural University,
Copenhagen, Denmark.

Photosynthesis in plants involves two photosystems responsible for converting
light energy into redox processes. The photosystems, PSI and PSII, operate
largely in series, and therefore their excitation must be balanced in order to
optimize photosynthetic performance. When plants are exposed to illumination
favouring either PSII or PSI they can redistribute excitation towards the
light-limited photosystem. Long-term changes in illumination lead to changes in
photosystem stoichiometry. In contrast, state transition is a dynamic mechanism
that enables plants to respond rapidly to changes in illumination. When PSII is
favoured (state 2), the redox conditions in the thylakoids change and result in
activation of a protein kinase. The kinase phosphorylates the main
light-harvesting complex (LHCII) and the mobile antenna complex is detached from 
PSII. It has not been clear if attachment of LHCII to PSI in state 2 is important
in state transitions. Here we show that in the absence of a specific PSI subunit,
PSI-H, LHCII cannot transfer energy to PSI, and state transitions are impaired.

DOI: 10.1038/35046121 
PMID: 11117752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):609-13.

Coenzyme Q is an obligatory cofactor for uncoupling protein function.

Echtay KS(1), Winkler E, Klingenberg M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiological Chemistry, University of Munich, Germany.

Uncoupling proteins (UCPs) are thought to be intricately controlled uncouplers
that are responsible for the futile dissipation of mitochondrial chemiosmotic
gradients, producing heat rather than ATP. They occur in many animal and plant
cells and form a subfamily of the mitochondrial carrier family. Physiological
uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation must be strongly regulated to avoid
deterioration of the energy supply and cell death, which is caused by toxic
uncouplers. However, an H+ transporting uncoupling function is well established
only for UCP1 from brown adipose tissue, and the regulation of UCP1 by fatty
acids, nucleotides and pH remains controversial. The failure of UCP1 expressed in
Escherichia coli inclusion bodies to carry out fatty-acid-dependent H+ transport 
activity inclusion bodies made us seek a native UCP cofactor. Here we report the 
identification of coenzyme Q (ubiquinone) as such a cofactor. On addition of
CoQ10 to reconstituted UCP1 from inclusion bodies, fatty-acid-dependent H+
transport reached the same rate as with native UCP1. The H+ transport was highly 
sensitive to purine nucleotides, and activated only by oxidized but not reduced
CoQ. H+ transport of native UCP1 correlated with the endogenous CoQ content.

DOI: 10.1038/35046114 
PMID: 11117751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):605-9.

Development of a preventive vaccine for Ebola virus infection in primates.

Sullivan NJ(1), Sanchez A, Rollin PE, Yang ZY, Nabel GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Vaccine Research Center, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland
20892, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):527-8.

Outbreaks of haemorrhagic fever caused by the Ebola virus are associated with
high mortality rates that are a distinguishing feature of this human pathogen.
The highest lethality is associated with the Zaire subtype, one of four strains
identified to date. Its rapid progression allows little opportunity to develop
natural immunity, and there is currently no effective anti-viral therapy.
Therefore, vaccination offers a promising intervention to prevent infection and
limit spread. Here we describe a highly effective vaccine strategy for Ebola
virus infection in non-human primates. A combination of DNA immunization and
boosting with adenoviral vectors that encode viral proteins generated cellular
and humoral immunity in cynomolgus macaques. Challenge with a lethal dose of the 
highly pathogenic, wild-type, 1976 Mayinga strain of Ebola Zaire virus resulted
in uniform infection in controls, who progressed to a moribund state and death in
less than one week. In contrast, all vaccinated animals were asymptomatic for
more than six months, with no detectable virus after the initial challenge. These
findings demonstrate that it is possible to develop a preventive vaccine against 
Ebola virus infection in primates.

DOI: 10.1038/35046108 
PMID: 11117750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):600-5.

T-cell-mediated regulation of osteoclastogenesis by signalling cross-talk between
RANKL and IFN-gamma.

Takayanagi H(1), Ogasawara K, Hida S, Chiba T, Murata S, Sato K, Takaoka A,
Yokochi T, Oda H, Tanaka K, Nakamura K, Taniguchi T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Faculty of Medicine and Graduate School of Medicine,
University of Tokyo, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):535-6.

Bone resorption is regulated by the immune system, where T-cell expression of
RANKL (receptor activator of nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB ligand), a member of the 
tumour-necrosis factor family that is essential for osteoclastogenesis, may
contribute to pathological conditions, such as autoimmune arthritis. However,
whether activated T cells maintain bone homeostasis by counterbalancing the
action of RANKL remains unknown. Here we show that T-cell production of
interferon (IFN)-gamma strongly suppresses osteoclastogenesis by interfering with
the RANKL-RANK signalling pathway. IFN-gamma induces rapid degradation of the
RANK adapter protein, TRAF6 (tumour necrosis factor receptor-associated factor
6), which results in strong inhibition of the RANKL-induced activation of the
transcription factor NF-kappaB and JNK. This inhibition of osteoclastogenesis is 
rescued by overexpressing TRAF6 in precursor cells, which indicates that TRAF6 is
the target critical for the IFN-gamma action. Furthermore, we provide evidence
that the accelerated degradation of TRAF6 requires both its ubiquitination, which
is initiated by RANKL, and IFN-gamma-induced activation of the
ubiquitin-proteasome system. Our study shows that there is cross-talk between the
tumour necrosis factor and IFN families of cytokines, through which IFN-gamma
provides a negative link between T-cell activation and bone resorption. Our
results may offer a therapeutic approach to treat the inflammation-induced tissue
breakdown.

DOI: 10.1038/35046102 
PMID: 11117749  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):596-600.

The tumour-suppressor genes lgl and dlg regulate basal protein targeting in
Drosophila neuroblasts.

Peng CY(1), Manning L, Albertson R, Doe CQ.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Oregon, Eugene 97403, USA.

Drosophila neuroblasts are a model system for studying asymmetric cell division: 
they divide unequally to produce an apical neuroblast and a basal ganglion mother
cell that differ in size, mitotic activity and developmental potential. During
neuroblast mitosis, an apical protein complex orients the mitotic spindle and
targets determinants of cell fate to the basal cortex, but the mechanism of each 
process is unknown. Here we show that the tumour-suppressor genes lethal giant
larvae (lgl) and discs large (dlg) regulate basal protein targeting, but not
apical complex formation or spindle orientation, in both embryonic and larval
neuroblasts. Dlg protein is apically enriched and is required for maintaining
cortical localization of Lgl protein. Basal protein targeting requires
microfilament and myosin function, yet the lgl phenotype is strongly suppressed
by reducing levels of myosin II. We conclude that Dlg and Lgl promote, and myosin
II inhibits, actomyosin-dependent basal protein targeting in neuroblasts.

DOI: 10.1038/35046094 
PMID: 11117748  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):593-6.

Role of cortical tumour-suppressor proteins in asymmetric division of Drosophila 
neuroblast.

Ohshiro T(1), Yagami T, Zhang C, Matsuzaki F.

Author information: 
(1)CREST, Japan Science and Technology Corporation, Sendai.

Cellular diversity during development arises in part from asymmetric divisions,
which generate two distinct cells by transmitting localized determinants from a
progenitor cell into one daughter cell. In Drosophila, neuroblasts undergo
typical asymmetric divisions to produce another neuroblast and a ganglion mother 
cell. At mitosis, neural fate determinants, including Prospero and Numb, localize
to the basal cortex, from which the ganglion mother cell buds off; Inscuteable
and Bazooka, which regulate spindle orientation, localize apically. Here we show 
that a tumour-suppressor protein, Lethal giant larvae (Lgl), is essential for
asymmetric cortical localization of all basal determinants in mitotic
neuroblasts, and is therefore indispensable for neural fate decisions. Lgl, which
itself is uniformly cortical, interacts with several types of Myosin to localize 
the determinants. Another tumour-suppressor protein, Lethal discs large (Dlg),
participates in this process by regulating the localization of Lgl. The
localization of the apical components is unaffected in lgl or dlg mutants. Thus, 
Lgl and Dlg act in a common process that differentially mediates cortical protein
targeting in mitotic neuroblasts, and that creates intrinsic differences between 
daughter cells.

DOI: 10.1038/35046087 
PMID: 11117747  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):589-93.

Analysis of calcium channels in single spines using optical fluctuation analysis.

Sabatini BL(1), Svoboda K.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, New York
11724, USA.

Most synapses form on small, specialized postsynaptic structures known as
dendritic spines. The influx of Ca2+ ions into such spines--through synaptic
receptors and voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels (VSCCs)--triggers diverse processes
that underlie synaptic plasticity. Using two-photon laser scanning microscopy, we
imaged action-potential-induced transient changes in Ca2+ concentration in spines
and dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons in rat hippocampal slices. Through
analysis of the large trial-to-trial fluctuations in these transients, we have
determined the number and properties of VSCCs in single spines. Here we report
that each spine contains 1-20 VSCCs, and that this number increases with spine
volume. We are able to detect the opening of a single VSCC on a spine. In spines 
located on the proximal dendritic tree, VSCCs normally open with high probability
(approximately 0.5) following dendritic action potentials. Activation of GABA(B) 
receptors reduced this probability in apical spines to approximately 0.3 but had 
no effect on VSCCs in dendrites or basal spines. Our studies show that the
spatial distribution of VSCC subtypes and their modulatory potential is regulated
with submicrometre precision.

DOI: 10.1038/35046076 
PMID: 11117746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):584-8.

Calcium stores regulate the polarity and input specificity of synaptic
modification.

Nishiyama M(1), Hong K, Mikoshiba K, Poo MM, Kato K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California at San Diego, La Jolla
92093-0357, USA.

Activity-induced synaptic modification is essential for the development and
plasticity of the nervous system. Repetitive correlated activation of pre- and
postsynaptic neurons can induce persistent enhancement or decrement of synaptic
efficacy, commonly referred to as long-term potentiation or depression (LTP or
LTD). An important unresolved issue is whether and to what extent LTP and LTD are
restricted to the activated synapses. Here we show that, in the CA1 region of the
hippocampus, reduction of postsynaptic calcium influx by partial blockade of NMDA
(N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors results in a conversion of LTP to LTD and a loss
of input specificity normally associated with LTP, with LTD appearing at
heterosynaptic inputs. The induction of LTD at homo- and heterosynaptic sites
requires functional ryanodine receptors and inositol triphosphate (InsP3)
receptors, respectively. Functional blockade or genetic deletion of type 1 InsP3 
receptors led to a conversion of LTD to LTP and elimination of heterosynaptic
LTD, whereas blocking ryanodine receptors eliminated only homosynaptic LTD. Thus,
postsynaptic Ca2+, deriving from Ca2+ influx and differential release of Ca2+
from internal stores through ryanodine and InsP3 receptors, regulates both the
polarity and input specificity of activity-induced synaptic modification.

DOI: 10.1038/35046067 
PMID: 11117745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):580-3.

Bacterial dehalorespiration with chlorinated benzenes.

Adrian L(1), Szewzyk U, Wecke J, Görisch H.

Author information: 
(1)Fachgebiet Technische Biochemie, Technische Universität, Berlin, Germany.
lorenz.adrian@tu-berlin.de

Chlorobenzenes are toxic, highly persistent and ubiquitously distributed
environmental contaminants that accumulate in the food chain. The only known
microbial transformation of 1,2,3,5-tetrachlorobenzene (TeCB) and higher
chlorinated benzenes is the reductive dechlorination to lower chlorinated
benzenes under anaerobic conditions observed with mixed bacterial cultures. The
lower chlorinated benzenes can subsequently be mineralized by aerobic bacteria.
Here we describe the isolation of the oxygen-sensitive strain CBDB1, a pure
culture capable of reductive dechlorination of chlorobenzenes. Strain CBDB1 is a 
highly specialized bacterium that stoichiometrically dechlorinates
1,2,3-trichlorobenzene (TCB), 1,2,4-TCB, 1,2,3,4-TeCB, 1,2,3,5-TeCB and
1,2,4,5-TeCB to dichlorobenzenes or 1,3,5-TCB. The presence of chlorobenzene as
an electron acceptor and hydrogen as an electron donor is essential for growth,
and indicates that strain CBDB1 meets its energy needs by a dehalorespiratory
process. According to their 16S rRNA gene sequences, strain CBDB1,
Dehalococcoides ethenogenes and several uncultivated bacteria form a new
bacterial cluster, of which strain CBDB1 is the first, so far, to thrive on a
purely synthetic medium.

DOI: 10.1038/35046063 
PMID: 11117744  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):578-80.

Nutritional constraints in terrestrial and freshwater food webs.

Elser JJ(1), Fagan WF, Denno RF, Dobberfuhl DR, Folarin A, Huberty A, Interlandi 
S, Kilham SS, McCauley E, Schulz KL, Siemann EH, Sterner RW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Arizona State University, Tempe 85287, USA.
j.elser@asu.edu

Biological and environmental contrasts between aquatic and terrestrial systems
have hindered analyses of community and ecosystem structure across Earth's
diverse habitats. Ecological stoichiometry provides an integrative approach for
such analyses, as all organisms are composed of the same major elements (C, N, P)
whose balance affects production, nutrient cycling, and food-web dynamics. Here
we show both similarities and differences in the C:N:P ratios of primary
producers (autotrophs) and invertebrate primary consumers (herbivores) across
habitats. Terrestrial food webs are built on an extremely nutrient-poor autotroph
base with C:P and C:N ratios higher than in lake particulate matter, although the
N:P ratios are nearly identical. Terrestrial herbivores (insects) and their
freshwater counterparts (zooplankton) are nutrient-rich and indistinguishable in 
C:N:P stoichiometry. In both lakes and terrestrial systems, herbivores should
have low growth efficiencies (10-30%) when consuming autotrophs with typical
carbon-to-nutrient ratios. These stoichiometric constraints on herbivore growth
appear to be qualitatively similar and widespread in both environments.

DOI: 10.1038/35046058 
PMID: 11117743  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):574-8.

Geochemical evidence for terrestrial ecosystems 2.6 billion years ago.

Watanabe Y(1), Martini JE, Ohmoto H.

Author information: 
(1)Astrobiology Research Center and Department of Geosciences, The Pennsylvania
State University, University Park 16802, USA. yumiko@essc.psu.edu

Microorganisms have flourished in the oceans since at least 3.8 billion years
(3.8 Gyr) ago, but it is not at present clear when they first colonized the land.
Organic matter in some Au/U-rich conglomerates and ancient soils of 2.3-2.7 Gyr
age has been suggested as remnants of terrestrial organisms. Some 2.7-Gyr-old
stromatolites have also been suggested as structures created by terrestrial
organisms. However, it has been disputed whether this organic matter is
indigenous or exogenic, and whether these stromatolites formed in marine or fresh
water. Consequently, the oldest undisputed remnants of terrestrial organisms are 
currently the 1.2-Gyr-old microfossils from Arizona, USA. Unusually carbonaceous 
ancient soils--palaeosols--have been found in the Mpumalanga Province (Eastern
Transvaal) of South Africa. Here we report the occurrences, elemental ratios (C, 
H, N, P) and isotopic compositions of this organic matter and its host rocks.
These data show that the organic matter very probably represents remnants of
microbial mats that developed on the soil surface between 2.6 and 2.7 Gyr ago.
This places the development of terrestrial biomass more than 1.4 billion years
earlier than previously reported.

DOI: 10.1038/35046052 
PMID: 11117742  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):570-4.

Triggering of earthquake aftershocks by dynamic stresses.

Kilb D(1), Gomberg J, Bodin P.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Earthquake Research and Information, The University of Memphis,
Tennessee 38152, USA.

It is thought that small 'static' stress changes due to permanent fault
displacement can alter the likelihood of, or trigger, earthquakes on nearby
faults. Many studies of triggering in the near-field, particularly of
aftershocks, rely on these static changes as the triggering agent and consider
them only in terms of equivalent changes in the applied load on the fault. Here
we report a comparison of the aftershock pattern of the moment magnitude Mw = 7.3
Landers earthquake, not only with static stress changes but also with transient, 
oscillatory stress changes transmitted as seismic waves (that is, 'dynamic'
stresses). Dynamic stresses do not permanently change the applied load and thus
can trigger earthquakes only by altering the mechanical state or properties of
the fault zone. These dynamically weakened faults may fail after the seismic
waves have passed by, and might even cause earthquakes that would not otherwise
have occurred. We find similar asymmetries in the aftershock and dynamic stress
patterns, the latter being due to rupture propagation, whereas the static stress 
changes lack this asymmetry. Previous studies have shown that dynamic stresses
can promote failure at remote distances, but here we show that they can also do
so nearby.

DOI: 10.1038/35046046 
PMID: 11117741 


74. Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):567-70.

Changes in deep-water formation during the Younger Dryas event inferred from 10Be
and 14C records.

Muscheler R(1), Beer J, Wagner G, Finkel RC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surface Waters, EAWAG, Dübendorf, Switzerland.
muscheler@eawag.ch

Variations in atmospheric radiocarbon (14C) concentrations can be attributed
either to changes in the carbon cycle--through the rate of radiocarbon removal
from the atmosphere--or to variations in the production rate of 14C due to
changes in solar activity or the Earth's magnetic field. The production rates of 
10Be and 14C vary in the same way, but whereas atmospheric radiocarbon
concentrations are additionally affected by the carbon cycle, 10Be concentrations
reflect production rates more directly. A record of the 10Be production-rate
variations can therefore be used to separate the two influences--production rates
and the carbon cycle--on radiocarbon concentrations. Here we present such an
analysis of the large fluctuations in atmospheric 14C concentrations, of unclear 
origin, that occurred during the Younger Dryas cold period. We use the 10Be
record from the GISP2 ice core to model past production rates of radionuclides,
and find that the largest part of the fluctuations in atmospheric radiocarbon
concentrations can be attributed to variations in production rate. The residual
difference between measured 14C concentrations and those modelled using the 10Be 
record can be explained with an additional change in the carbon cycle, most
probably in the amount of deep-water formation.

DOI: 10.1038/35046041 
PMID: 11117740 


75. Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):564-7.

First-order transition in confined water between high-density liquid and
low-density amorphous phases.

Koga K(1), Tanaka H, Zeng XC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Fukuoka University of Education, Japan.
kenkoga@fukuoka-edu.ac.jp

Supercooled water and amorphous ice have a rich metastable phase behaviour. In
addition to transitions between high- and low-density amorphous solids, and
between high- and low-density liquids, a fragile-to-strong liquid transition has 
recently been proposed, and supported by evidence from the behaviour of deeply
supercooled bilayer water confined in hydrophilic slit pores. Here we report
evidence from molecular dynamics simulations for another type of first-order
phase transition--a liquid-to-bilayer amorphous transition--above the freezing
temperature of bulk water at atmospheric pressure. This transition occurs only
when water is confined in a hydrophobic slit pore with a width of less than one
nanometre. On cooling, the confined water, which has an imperfect random
hydrogen-bonded network, transforms into a bilayer amorphous phase with a perfect
network (owing to the formation of various hydrogen-bonded polygons) but no
long-range order. The transition shares some characteristics with those observed 
in tetrahedrally coordinated substances such as liquid silicon, liquid carbon and
liquid phosphorus.

DOI: 10.1038/35046035 
PMID: 11117739 


76. Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):562-4.

Unusual spectral energy distribution of a galaxy previously reported to be at
redshift 6.68.

Chen HW(1), Lanzetta KM, Pascarelle S, Yahata N.

Author information: 
(1)Observatories of the Carnegie Institution of Washington, Pasadena, California 
91101, USA. hchen@ociw.edu

Observations of distant galaxies are important both for understanding how
galaxies form and for probing the physical conditions of the Universe at early
times. It is, however, very difficult to identify galaxies at redshifts z > 5,
because they are so faint and have few spectral characteristics. We previously
reported the probable identification of a galaxy at z = 6.68, based on one line
and an apparent break in the spectrum just shortwards of that, which we
interpreted as Lyman alpha emission and the Lyman alpha break, where photons with
shorter wavelengths are absorbed by the intervening neutral hydrogen gas. Here we
present optical photometry that shows moderate detections of light in the B- and 
V-band images, which are inconsistent with the expected absence of flux
shortwards of the Lyman alpha break for alpha galaxy at z > 5, and inconsistent
with the previous flux measurement. Moreover, the spectral energy distribution
for this object cannot readily be fitted by any known galaxy spectral template at
any redshift, so the redshift is undetermined.

DOI: 10.1038/35046031 
PMID: 11117738 


77. Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):560-2.

Evidence against a redshift z > 6 for the galaxy STIS123627+621755.

Stern D(1), Eisenhardt P, Spinrad H, Dawson S, van Breugel W, Dey A, de Vries W, 
Stanford SA.

Author information: 
(1)Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena 91109,
USA. stern@zwolfkinder.jpl.nasa.gov

The identification of galaxies at extreme distances provides the most direct
information about the earliest phases of galaxy formation. But at redshifts z > 5
even the most luminous galaxies appear faint; the interpretation of low
signal-to-noise ratio data is difficult and misidentifications do occur. Here we 
report optical and near-infrared observations of the source STIS123627+621755,
which was previously suggested to be at a redshift of 6.68 (ref. 1). At that
redshift, and with the reported spectral energy distribution, the galaxy should
be essentially invisible at wavelengths less than 9,300 A, because the
intervening intergalactic medium absorbs almost all light energetic enough to
ionize neutral hydrogen--that is, with wavelengths less than the redshifted Lyman
limit of lambda = (1 + z) x 912A. At near-infrared wavelengths, however, the
galaxy should be relatively bright. Here we report a detection of the galaxy at
6,700 A and a non-detection at a wavelength of 1.2 microm, contrary to
expectations for z approximately 6.68. The data conservatively require that
STIS123627+621755 has a redshift z < 6.

DOI: 10.1038/35046027 
PMID: 11117737 


78. Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):553-9.

Genetic control and evolution of sexually dimorphic characters in Drosophila.

Kopp A(1), Duncan I, Godt D, Carroll SB.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Laboratory of Molecular Biology,
University of Wisconsin-Madison, 53706-1596, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature 2001 Mar 29;410(6828):611.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):529, 531.
    Nature. 2002 Sep 26;419(6905):360; discussion 360.

Sexually dimorphic abdominal pigmentation and segment morphology evolved recently
in the melanogaster species group of the fruitfly Drosophila. Here we show that
these traits are controlled by the bric à brac [corrected] (bab) gene, which
integrates regulatory inputs from the homeotic and sex-determination pathways.
bab expression is modulated segment- and sex-specifically in sexually dimorphic
species, but is uniform in sexually monomorphic species. We suggest that bab has 
an ancestral homeotic function, and that regulatory changes at the bab locus
played a key role in the evolution of sexual dimorphism. Pigmentation patterns
specified by bab affect mating preferences, suggesting that sexual selection has 
contributed to the evolution of bab regulation.

DOI: 10.1038/35046017 
PMID: 11117736  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):549-52.

Superconductivity at 52 K in hole-doped C60.

Schön JH(1), Kloc C, Batlogg B.

Author information: 
(1)Bell Laboratories, Lucent Technologies, Murray Hill, New Jersey 07974, USA.

Retraction in
    Schön JH, Kloc Ch, Batlogg B. Nature. 2003 Mar 6;422(6927):93.

Superconductivity in electron-doped C60 was first observed almost ten years ago. 
The metallic state and superconductivity result from the transfer of electrons
from alkaline or alkaline-earth ions to the C60 molecule, which is known to be a 
strong electron acceptor. For this reason, it is very difficult to remove
electrons from C60--yet one might expect to see superconductivity at higher
temperatures in hole-doped than in electron-doped C60, because of the higher
density of electronic states in the valence band than in the conduction band. We 
have used the technique of gate-induced doping in a field-effect transistor
configuration to introduce significant densities of holes into C60. We observe
superconductivity over an extended range of hole density, with a smoothly varying
transition temperature Tc that peaks at 52 K. By comparison with the well
established dependence of Tc on the lattice parameter in electron-doped C60, we
anticipate that Tc values significantly in excess of 100 K should be achievable
in a suitably expanded, hole-doped C60 lattice.

DOI: 10.1038/35046008 
PMID: 11117735 


80. Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):541-8.

Electronics using hybrid-molecular and mono-molecular devices.

Joachim C(1), Gimzewski JK, Aviram A.

Author information: 
(1)Centre d'Elaboration de Matériaux et d'Etudes Structurales-Centre National de 
la Recherche Scientifique, Toulouse, France. joachim@cemes.fr

The semiconductor industry has seen a remarkable miniaturization trend, driven by
many scientific and technological innovations. But if this trend is to continue, 
and provide ever faster and cheaper computers, the size of microelectronic
circuit components will soon need to reach the scale of atoms or molecules--a
goal that will require conceptually new device structures. The idea that a few
molecules, or even a single molecule, could be embedded between electrodes and
perform the basic functions of digital electronics--rectification, amplification 
and storage--was first put forward in the mid-1970s. The concept is now realized 
for individual components, but the economic fabrication of complete circuits at
the molecular level remains challenging because of the difficulty of connecting
molecules to one another. A possible solution to this problem is 'mono-molecular'
electronics, in which a single molecule will integrate the elementary functions
and interconnections required for computation.

DOI: 10.1038/35046000 
PMID: 11117734 


81. Nature. 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):495-8.

Global histone acetylation and deacetylation in yeast.

Vogelauer M(1), Wu J, Suka N, Grunstein M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, UCLA School of Medicine and the Molecular 
Biology Institute, University of California, Los Angeles 90095, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):412-3, 415.

Histone acetyltransferases and deacetylases can be targeted to promoters to
activate or repress genes. For example, the histone acetyltransferase GCN5 is
part of a yeast multiprotein complex that is recruited by the DNA-binding
activator protein GCN4 (refs 1-3). The histone deacetylase RPD3 complex is
recruited to DNA by the repressor UME6 (refs 4, 5); similar mechanisms exist in
other eukaryotes. However, deletion of RPD3 also increases expression of the PHO5
gene that is repressed by nucleosomes, and regulated by GCN5 (ref. 10) but not by
UME6. We have determined whether acetylation and deacetylation are promoter
specific at PHO5, by using antibodies against acetylated lysine residues and
chromatin immunoprecipitation to examine the acetylation state of a 4.25-kilobase
region surrounding the PHO5 gene. Here we show that this region is acetylated
extensively by ESA1 and GCN5 and deacetylated by HDA1 and RPD3, and that
widespread histone modification affects three separate chromosomal regions
examined, which total 22kb. Our data indicate that targeted modification occurs
in a background of global acetylation and deacetylation that not only reduces
basal transcription, but also allows a rapid return to the initial state of
acetylation when targeting is removed.

DOI: 10.1038/35044127 
PMID: 11100734  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Nature. 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):492-5.

G alpha(i) and G alpha(o) are target proteins of reactive oxygen species.

Nishida M(1), Maruyama Y, Tanaka R, Kontani K, Nagao T, Kurose H.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical
Science, University of Tokyo, Japan.

Reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been identified as central mediators in
certain signalling events. In the heart, ROS have important functions in
ischaemia/reperfusion-induced cardiac injury and in cytokine-stimulated
hypertrophy. Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) is one of the
ROS-responsive serine/threonine kinases. Previous studies showed that tyrosine
kinases and small G proteins are involved in the activation of ERK by ROS;
however, the initial target protein of ROS that leads to ERK activation remains
unknown. Here we show that inhibition of the betagamma-subunit of G protein (G
betagamma) attenuates hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced ERK activation in rat
neonatal cardiomyocytes. The G betagamma-responsive ERK activation induced by
H2O2 is independent of ligands binding to Gi-coupled receptors, but requires
phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase and Src activation. In in vitro studies, however,
treatment with H2O2 increases [35S]GTP-gammaS binding to cardiac membranes and
directly activates purified heterotrimeric Gi and Go but not Gs. Analysis using
heterotrimeric Go and its individual subunits indicates that H2O2 modifies G
alpha(o) but not G betagamma, which leads to subunit dissociation. We conclude
that G alpha(i) and G alpha(o) are critical targets of oxidative stress for
activation of ERK.

DOI: 10.1038/35044120 
PMID: 11100733  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Nature. 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):488-92.

A ubiquitin-like system mediates protein lipidation.

Ichimura Y(1), Kirisako T, Takao T, Satomi Y, Shimonishi Y, Ishihara N, Mizushima
N, Tanida I, Kominami E, Ohsumi M, Noda T, Ohsumi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, National Institute for Basic Biology, Okazaki,
Japan.

Autophagy is a dynamic membrane phenomenon for bulk protein degradation in the
lysosome/vacuole. Apg8/Aut7 is an essential factor for autophagy in yeast. We
previously found that the carboxy-terminal arginine of nascent Apg8 is removed by
Apg4/Aut2 protease, leaving a glycine residue at the C terminus. Apg8 is then
converted to a form (Apg8-X) that is tightly bound to the membrane. Here we
report a new mode of protein lipidation. Apg8 is covalently conjugated to
phosphatidylethanolamine through an amide bond between the C-terminal glycine and
the amino group of phosphatidylethanolamine. This lipidation is mediated by a
ubiquitination-like system. Apg8 is a ubiquitin-like protein that is activated by
an E1 protein, Apg7 (refs 7, 8), and is transferred subsequently to the E2
enzymes Apg3/Aut1 (ref. 9). Apg7 activates two different ubiquitin-like proteins,
Apg12 (ref. 10) and Apg8, and assigns them to specific E2 enzymes, Apg10 (ref.
11) and Apg3, respectively. These reactions are necessary for the formation of
Apg8-phosphatidylethanolamine. This lipidation has an essential role in membrane 
dynamics during autophagy.

DOI: 10.1038/35044114 
PMID: 11100732  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nature. 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):483-8.

Remission in models of type 1 diabetes by gene therapy using a single-chain
insulin analogue.

Lee HC(1), Kim SJ, Kim KS, Shin HC, Yoon JW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Yonsei University, College of Medicine,
Seoul, Korea. endohclee@yumc.yonsei.ac.kr

Retraction in
    Lee HC, Kim KS, Shin HC. Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):660.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):420-1.

A cure for diabetes has long been sought using several different approaches,
including islet transplantation, regeneration of beta cells and insulin gene
therapy. However, permanent remission of type 1 diabetes has not yet been
satisfactorily achieved. The development of type 1 diabetes results from the
almost total destruction of insulin-producing pancreatic beta cells by autoimmune
responses specific to beta cells. Standard insulin therapy may not maintain blood
glucose concentrations within the relatively narrow range that occurs in the
presence of normal pancreatic beta cells. We used a recombinant adeno-associated 
virus (rAAV) that expresses a single-chain insulin analogue (SIA), which
possesses biologically active insulin activity without enzymatic conversion,
under the control of hepatocyte-specific L-type pyruvate kinase (LPK) promoter,
which regulates SIA expression in response to blood glucose levels. Here we show 
that SIA produced from the gene construct rAAV-LPK-SIA caused remission of
diabetes in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats and autoimmune diabetic mice for
a prolonged time without any apparent side effects. This new SIA gene therapy may
have potential therapeutic value for the cure of autoimmune diabetes in humans.

DOI: 10.1038/35044106 
PMID: 11100731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Nature. 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):479-83.

Binding of disease-associated prion protein to plasminogen.

Fischer MB(1), Roeckl C, Parizek P, Schwarz HP, Aguzzi A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Neuropatholgy, University Hospital of Zurich, Switzerland.

Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies are associated with accumulation of
PrP(Sc), a conformer of a cellular protein called PrP(C). PrP(Sc) is thought to
replicate by imparting its conformation onto PrP(C) (ref. 1), yet conformational 
discrimination between PrP(C) and PrP(Sc) has remained elusive. Because
deposition of PrP(Sc) alone is not enough to cause neuropathology, PrP(Sc)
probably damages the brain by interacting with other cellular constituents. Here 
we find activities in human and mouse blood which bind PrP(Sc) and prion
infectivity, but not PrP(C). We identify plasminogen, a pro-protease implicated
in neuronal excitotoxicity, as a PrP(Sc)-binding protein. Binding is abolished if
the conformation of PrP(Sc) is disrupted by 6M urea or guanidine. The isolated
lysine binding site 1 of plasminogen (kringles I-III) retains this binding
activity, and binding can be competed for with lysine. Therefore, plasminogen
represents the first endogenous factor discriminating between normal and
pathological prion protein. This unexpected property may be exploited for
diagnostic purposes.

DOI: 10.1038/35044100 
PMID: 11100730  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Nature. 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):475-9.

Notch signalling and the synchronization of the somite segmentation clock.

Jiang YJ(1), Aerne BL, Smithers L, Haddon C, Ish-Horowicz D, Lewis J.

Author information: 
(1)Vertebrate Development Laboratory, Imperial Cancer Research Fund, London, UK.

In vertebrates with mutations in the Notch cell-cell communication pathway,
segmentation fails: the boundaries demarcating somites, the segments of the
embryonic body axis, are absent or irregular. This phenotype has prompted many
investigations, but the role of Notch signalling in somitogenesis remains
mysterious. Somite patterning is thought to be governed by a
"clock-and-wavefront" mechanism: a biochemical oscillator (the segmentation
clock) operates in the cells of the presomitic mesoderm, the immature tissue from
which the somites are sequentially produced, and a wavefront of maturation sweeps
back through this tissue, arresting oscillation and initiating somite
differentiation. Cells arrested in different phases of their cycle express
different genes, defining the spatially periodic pattern of somites and
controlling the physical process of segmentation. Notch signalling, one might
think, must be necessary for oscillation, or to organize subsequent events that
create the somite boundaries. Here we analyse a set of zebrafish mutants and
arrive at a different interpretation: the essential function of Notch signalling 
in somite segmentation is to keep the oscillations of neighbouring presomitic
mesoderm cells synchronized.

DOI: 10.1038/35044091 
PMID: 11100729  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Nature. 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):470-5.

MOD-1 is a serotonin-gated chloride channel that modulates locomotory behaviour
in C. elegans.

Ranganathan R(1), Cannon SC, Horvitz HR.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Biology, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge 02139, USA.

The neurotransmitter and neuromodulator serotonin (5-HT) functions by binding
either to metabotropic G-protein-coupled receptors (for example, 5-HT1, 5-HT2,
5-HT4 to 5-HT7), which mediate 'slow' modulatory responses through numerous
second messenger pathways, or to the ionotropic 5-HT3 receptor, a non-selective
cation channel that mediates 'fast' membrane depolarizations. Here we report that
the gene mod-1 (for modulation of locomotion defective) from the nematode
Caenorhabditis elegans encodes a new type of ionotropic 5-HT receptor, a
5-HT-gated chloride channel. The predicted MOD-1 protein is similar to members of
the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor family of ligand-gated ion channels, in
particular to GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid)- and glycine-gated chloride
channels. The MOD-1 channel has distinctive ion selectivity and pharmacological
properties. The reversal potential of the MOD-1 channel is dependent on the
concentration of chloride ions but not of cations. The MOD-1 channel is not
blocked by calcium ions or 5-HT3a-specific antagonists but is inhibited by the
metabotropic 5-HT receptor antagonists mianserin and methiothepin. mod-1 mutant
animals are defective in a 5-HT-mediated experience-dependent behaviour and are
resistant to exogenous 5-HT, confirming that MOD-1 functions as a 5-HT receptor
in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/35044083 
PMID: 11100728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Nature. 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):466-70.

Integration of target and body-part information in the premotor cortex when
planning action.

Hoshi E(1), Tanji J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Tohoku University School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan.

To plan an action, we must first select an object to act on and the body part (or
parts) to use to accomplish our intention. To plan the motor task of reaching, we
specify both the target to reach for and the arm to use. In the process of
planning and preparing a motor task, information about the motor target and the
arm to use must be integrated before a motor program can be formulated to
generate the appropriate limb movement. One of the structures in the brain that
is probably involved in integrating these two sets of information is the premotor
area in the cerebral cortex of primates. The lateral sector of the dorsal
premotor cortex is known to receive both visual and somatosensory input, and we
show here that neurons in this area gather information about both the target and 
the body part, while subsequent activity specifies the planned action.

DOI: 10.1038/35044075 
PMID: 11100727  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Nature. 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):463-6.

Variation in the reversibility of evolution.

Teotónio H(1), Rose MR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California,
Irvine 92612, USA. ht227@cam.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):416-7.

How reversible is adaptive evolution? Studies of microbes give mixed answers to
this question. Reverse evolution has been little studied in sexual populations,
even though the population genetics of sexual populations may be quite different.
In the present study, 25 diverged replicated populations of Drosophila
melanogaster are returned to a common ancestral environment for 50 generations.
Here we show that reverse evolution back to the ancestral state occurs, but is
not universal, instead depending on previous evolutionary history and the
character studied. Hybrid populations showed no greater tendency to undergo
successful reverse evolution, suggesting that insufficient genetic variation was 
not the factor limiting reverse evolution. Adaptive reverse evolution is a
contingent process which occurs with only 50 generations of sexual reproduction.

DOI: 10.1038/35044070 
PMID: 11100726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Nature. 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):460-3.

Concurrent density dependence and independence in populations of arctic ground
squirrels.

Karels TJ(1), Boonstra R.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Life Sciences, University of Toronto at Scarborough, Ontario,
Canada.

No population increases without limit. The processes that prevent this can
operate in either a density-dependent way (acting with increasing severity to
increase mortality rates or decrease reproductive rates as density increases), a 
density-independent way, or in both ways simultaneously. However, ecologists
disagree for two main reasons about the relative roles and influences that
density-dependent and density-independent processes have in determining
population size. First, empirical studies showing both processes operating
simultaneously are rare. Second, time-series analyses of long-term census data
sometimes overestimate dependence. By using a density-perturbation experiment on 
arctic ground squirrels, we show concurrent density-dependent and
density-independent declines in weaning rates, followed by density-dependent
declines in overwinter survival during hibernation. These two processes result in
strong, density-dependent convergence of experimentally increased populations to 
those of control populations that had been at low, stable levels.

DOI: 10.1038/35044064 
PMID: 11100725  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Nature. 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):457-60.

The use of earthquake rate changes as a stress meter at Kilauea volcano.

Dieterich J(1), Cayol V, Okubo P.

Author information: 
(1)US Geological Survey, Menlo Park, California 94025, USA. jdieterich@usgs.gov

Stress changes in the Earth's crust are generally estimated from model
calculations that use near-surface deformation as an observational constraint.
But the widespread correlation of changes of earthquake activity with stress has 
led to suggestions that stress changes might be calculated from earthquake
occurrence rates obtained from seismicity catalogues. Although this possibility
has considerable appeal, because seismicity data are routinely collected and have
good spatial and temporal resolution, the method has not yet proven successful,
owing to the non-linearity of earthquake rate changes with respect to both stress
and time. Here, however, we present two methods for inverting earthquake rate
data to infer stress changes, using a formulation for the stress- and
time-dependence of earthquake rates. Application of these methods at Kilauea
volcano, in Hawaii, yields good agreement with independent estimates, indicating 
that earthquake rates can provide a practical remote-sensing stress meter.

DOI: 10.1038/35044054 
PMID: 11100724 


92. Nature. 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):453-7.

Improved estimates of global ocean circulation, heat transport and mixing from
hydrographic data.

Ganachaud A(1), Wunsch C.

Author information: 
(1)MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA. ganacho@ifremer.fr

Through its ability to transport large amounts of heat, fresh water and
nutrients, the ocean is an essential regulator of climate. The pathways and
mechanisms of this transport and its stability are critical issues in
understanding the present state of climate and the possibilities of future
changes. Recently, global high-quality hydrographic data have been gathered in
the World Ocean Circulation Experiment (WOCE), to obtain an accurate picture of
the present circulation. Here we combine the new data from high-resolution
trans-oceanic sections and current meters with climatological wind fields,
biogeochemical balances and improved a priori error estimates in an inverse
model, to improve estimates of the global circulation and heat fluxes. Our
solution resolves globally vertical mixing across surfaces of equal density, with
coefficients in the range (3-12) x 10(-4) m2 s(-1). Net deep-water production
rates amount to (15 +/- 12) x 10(6) m3 s(-1) in the North Atlantic Ocean and (21 
+/- 6) x 10(6) m3 s(-1) in the Southern Ocean. Our estimates provide a new
reference state for future climate studies with rigorous estimates of the
uncertainties.

DOI: 10.1038/35044048 
PMID: 11100723 


93. Nature. 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):449-53.

Direct imaging of the pores and cages of three-dimensional mesoporous materials.

Sakamoto Y(1), Kaneda M, Terasaki O, Zhao DY, Kim JM, Stucky G, Shin HJ, Ryoo R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and CIR, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan.

Mesostructured composite materials, with features ranging from 20 to 500 A in
size, are obtained by the kinetically controlled competitive assembly of organic 
and inorganic species into nanostructured domains. Short-range order is limited, 
and long-range order is determined by weak forces such as van der Waals or
hydrogen-bonding. Three-dimensional mesoporous materials obtained by removing the
organic phase are of particular interest for applications such as catalysis and
chemical sensing or separation, for which structural features such as cavity
shape, connectivity and ordered bimodal porosity are critical. But atomic-scale
structural characterization by the usual diffraction techniques is challenging
for these partially ordered materials because of the difficulty in obtaining
large (> 10 microm) single crystals, and because large repeat spacings cause
diffraction intensities to fall off rapidly with scattering angle so that only
limited small-angle data are available. Here we present a general approach for
the direct determination of three-dimensional mesoporous structures by electron
microscopy. The structure solutions are obtained uniquely without pre-assumed
models or parametrization. We report high-resolution details of cage and pore
structures of periodically ordered mesoporous materials, which reveal a highly
ordered dual micro- and mesoscale pore structure.

DOI: 10.1038/35044040 
PMID: 11100722 


94. Nature. 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):447-9.

Coexistence of ferromagnetism and metallic conductivity in a molecule-based
layered compound.

Coronado E(1), Galán-Mascarós JR, Gómez-García CJ, Laukhin V.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Ciencia Molecular, Universidad de Valencia, Burjasot, Spain.
eugenio.coronado@uv.es

Crystal engineering--the planning and construction of crystalline supramolecular 
architectures from modular building blocks--permits the rational design of
functional molecular materials that exhibit technologically useful behaviour such
as conductivity and superconductivity, ferromagnetism and nonlinear optical
properties. Because the presence of two cooperative properties in the same
crystal lattice might result in new physical phenomena and novel applications, a 
particularly attractive goal is the design of molecular materials with two
properties that are difficult or impossible to combine in a conventional
inorganic solid with a continuous lattice. A promising strategy for creating this
type of 'bi-functionality' targets hybrid organic/inorganic crystals comprising
two functional sub-lattices exhibiting distinct properties. In this way, the
organic pi-electron donor bis(ethylenedithio)tetrathiafulvalene (BEDT-TTF) and
its derivatives, which form the basis of most known molecular conductors and
superconductors, have been combined with molecular magnetic anions, yielding
predominantly materials with conventional semiconducting or conducting
properties, but also systems that are both superconducting and paramagnetic. But 
interesting bulk magnetic properties fail to develop, owing to the discrete
nature of the inorganic anions. Another strategy for achieving cooperative
magnetism involves insertion of functional bulky cations into a polymeric
magnetic anion, such as the bimetallic oxalato complex [MnIICrIII(C2O4)3]-, but
only insoluble powders have been obtained in most cases. Here we report the
synthesis of single crystals formed by infinite sheets of this magnetic
coordination polymer interleaved with layers of conducting BEDT-TTF cations, and 
show that this molecule-based compound displays ferromagnetism and metallic
conductivity.

DOI: 10.1038/35044035 
PMID: 11100721 


95. Nature. 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):445-7.

Evolution of the Sun's large-scale magnetic field since the Maunder minimum.

Solanki SK(1), Schüssler M, Fligge M.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Aeronomie, Katlenburg-Lindau, Germany.
solanki@linmpi.mpg.de

The most striking feature of the Sun's magnetic field is its cyclic behaviour.
The number of sunspots, which are dark regions of strong magnetic field on the
Sun's surface, varies with a period of about 11 years. Superposed on this cycle
are secular changes that occur on timescales of centuries and events like the
Maunder minimum in the second half of the seventeenth century, when there were
very few sunspots. A part of the Sun's magnetic field reaches out from the
surface into interplanetary space, and it was recently discovered that the
average strength of this interplanetary field has doubled in the past 100 years. 
There has hitherto been no clear explanation for this doubling. Here we present a
model describing the long-term evolution of the Sun's large-scale magnetic field,
which reproduces the doubling of the interplanetary field. The model indicates
that there is a direct connection between the length of the sunspot cycle and the
secular variations.

DOI: 10.1038/35044027 
PMID: 11100720 


96. Nature. 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):440-4.

Optical gain in silicon nanocrystals.

Pavesi L(1), Dal Negro L, Mazzoleni C, Franzò G, Priolo F.

Author information: 
(1)INFM & Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Trento, Povo, Italy.
pavesi@science.unitn.it

Adding optical functionality to a silicon microelectronic chip is one of the most
challenging problems of materials research. Silicon is an indirect-bandgap
semiconductor and so is an inefficient emitter of light. For this reason,
integration of optically functional elements with silicon microelectronic
circuitry has largely been achieved through the use of direct-bandgap compound
semiconductors. For optoelectronic applications, the key device is the light
source--a laser. Compound semiconductor lasers exploit low-dimensional electronic
systems, such as quantum wells and quantum dots, as the active optical amplifying
medium. Here we demonstrate that light amplification is possible using silicon
itself, in the form of quantum dots dispersed in a silicon dioxide matrix. Net
optical gain is seen in both waveguide and transmission configurations, with the 
material gain being of the same order as that of direct-bandgap quantum dots. We 
explain the observations using a model based on population inversion of radiative
states associated with the Si/SiO2 interface. These findings open a route to the 
fabrication of a silicon laser.

DOI: 10.1038/35044012 
PMID: 11100719 


97. Nature. 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):433-9.

The DNA damage response: putting checkpoints in perspective.

Zhou BB(1), Elledge SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology Research, SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, King of
Prussia, Pennsylvania 19406, USA.

The inability to repair DNA damage properly in mammals leads to various disorders
and enhanced rates of tumour development. Organisms respond to chromosomal
insults by activating a complex damage response pathway. This pathway regulates
known responses such as cell-cycle arrest and apoptosis (programmed cell death), 
and has recently been shown to control additional processes including direct
activation of DNA repair networks.

DOI: 10.1038/35044005 
PMID: 11100718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Nature. 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):429-32.

In search of the tumour-suppressor functions of BRCA1 and BRCA2.

Scully R(1), Livingston DM.

Author information: 
(1)The Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and the Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndromes can be caused by loss-of-function 
germline mutations in one of two tumour-suppressor genes, BRCA1 and BRCA2 (ref.
1). Each gene product interacts with recombination/DNA repair proteins in
pathways that participate in preserving intact chromosome structure. However, it 
is unclear to what extent such functions specifically suppress breast and ovarian
cancer. Here we analyse what is known of BRCA gene function and highlight some
unanswered questions in the field.

DOI: 10.1038/35044000 
PMCID: PMC2981135
PMID: 11100717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Nature. 2000 Nov 16;408(6810):381-6.

Insights into SCF ubiquitin ligases from the structure of the Skp1-Skp2 complex.

Schulman BA(1), Carrano AC, Jeffrey PD, Bowen Z, Kinnucan ER, Finnin MS, Elledge 
SJ, Harper JW, Pagano M, Pavletich NP.

Author information: 
(1)Cellular Biochemistry and Biophysics Program, Medical Institute, Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10021, USA.

F-box proteins are members of a large family that regulates the cell cycle, the
immune response, signalling cascades and developmental programmes by targeting
proteins, such as cyclins, cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors, IkappaBalpha and
beta-catenin, for ubiquitination (reviewed in refs 1-3). F-box proteins are the
substrate-recognition components of SCF (Skp1-Cullin-F-box protein)
ubiquitin-protein ligases. They bind the SCF constant catalytic core by means of 
the F-box motif interacting with Skp1, and they bind substrates through their
variable protein-protein interaction domains. The large number of F-box proteins 
is thought to allow ubiquitination of numerous, diverse substrates. Most
organisms have several Skp1 family members, but the function of these Skp1
homologues and the rules of recognition between different F-box and Skp1 proteins
remain unknown. Here we describe the crystal structure of the human F-box protein
Skp2 bound to Skp1. Skp1 recruits the F-box protein through a bipartite interface
involving both the F-box and the substrate-recognition domain. The structure
raises the possibility that different Skp1 family members evolved to function
with different subsets of F-box proteins, and suggests that the F-box protein may
not only recruit substrate, but may also position it optimally for the
ubiquitination reaction.

DOI: 10.1038/35042620 
PMID: 11099048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Nature. 2000 Nov 16;408(6810):377-81.

Deacetylation of p53 modulates its effect on cell growth and apoptosis.

Luo J(1), Su F, Chen D, Shiloh A, Gu W.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cancer Genetics, and Department of Pathology, College of
Physicians & Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.

The p53 tumour suppressor is a transcriptional factor whose activity is modulated
by protein stability and post-translational modifications including acetylation. 
The mechanism by which acetylated p53 is maintained in vivo remains unclear. Here
we show that the deacetylation of p53 is mediated by an histone deacetylase-1
(HDAC1)-containing complex. We have also purified a p53 target protein in the
deacetylase complexes (designated PID; but identical to metastasis-associated
protein 2 (MTA2)), which has been identified as a component of the NuRD complex. 
PID specifically interacts with p53 both in vitro and in vivo, and its expression
reduces significantly the steady-state levels of acetylated p53. PID expression
strongly represses p53-dependent transcriptional activation, and, notably, it
modulates p53-mediated cell growth arrest and apoptosis. These results show that 
deacetylation and functional interactions by the PID/MTA2-associated NuRD complex
may represent an important pathway to regulate p53 function.

DOI: 10.1038/35042612 
PMID: 11099047  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Nature. 2000 Nov 16;408(6810):374-7.

The Eps8 protein coordinates EGF receptor signalling through Rac and trafficking 
through Rab5.

Lanzetti L(1), Rybin V, Malabarba MG, Christoforidis S, Scita G, Zerial M, Di
Fiore PP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Oncology, European Institute of Oncology, Milan,
Italy.

How epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signalling is linked to EGFR
trafficking is largely unknown. Signalling and trafficking involve small GTPases 
of the Rho and Rab families, respectively. But it remains unknown whether the
signalling relying on these two classes of GTPases is integrated, and, if it is, 
what molecular machinery is involved. Here we report that the protein Eps8
connects these signalling pathways. Eps8 is a substrate of the EGFR, which is
held in a complex with Sos1 by the adaptor protein E3bl (ref. 2), thereby
mediating activation of Rac. Through its src homology-3 domain, Eps8 interacts
with RN-tre. We show that RN-tre is a Rab5 GTPase-activating protein, whose
activity is regulated by the EGFR. By entering in a complex with Eps8, RN-tre
acts on Rab5 and inhibits internalization of the EGFR. Furthermore, RN-tre
diverts Eps8 from its Rac-activating function, resulting in the attenuation of
Rac signalling. Thus, depending on its state of association with E3b1 or RN-tre, 
Eps8 participates in both EGFR signalling through Rac, and trafficking through
Rab5.

DOI: 10.1038/35042605 
PMID: 11099046  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Nature. 2000 Nov 16;408(6810):369-73.

ClC-5 Cl- -channel disruption impairs endocytosis in a mouse model for Dent's
disease.

Piwon N(1), Günther W, Schwake M, Bösl MR, Jentsch TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Zentrum für Molekulare Neurobiologie Hamburg, Universität Hamburg, Germany.

Dent's disease is an X-linked disorder associated with the urinary loss of
low-molecular-weight proteins, phosphate and calcium, which often leads to kidney
stones. It is caused by mutations in ClC-5, a renal chloride channel that is
expressed in endosomes of the proximal tubule. Here we show that disruption of
the mouse clcn5 gene causes proteinuria by strongly reducing apical proximal
tubular endocytosis. Both receptor-mediated and fluid-phase endocytosis are
affected, and the internalization of the apical transporters NaPi-2 and NHE3 is
slowed. At steady state, however, both proteins are redistributed from the plasma
membrane to intracellular vesicles. This may be caused by an increased
stimulation of luminal parathyroid hormone (PTH) receptors owing to the observed 
decreased tubular endocytosis of PTH. The rise in luminal PTH concentration
should also stimulate the hydroxylation of 25(OH) vitamin D3 to the active
hormone. However, this is counteracted by a urinary loss of the precursor 25(OH) 
vitamin D3. The balance between these opposing effects, both of which are
secondary to the defect in proximal tubular endocytosis, probably determines
whether there will be hypercalciuria and kidney stones.

DOI: 10.1038/35042597 
PMID: 11099045  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Nature. 2000 Nov 16;408(6810):366-9.

A regulator of transcriptional elongation controls vertebrate neuronal
development.

Guo S(1), Yamaguchi Y, Schilbach S, Wada T, Lee J, Goddard A, French D, Handa H, 
Rosenthal A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Genentech Inc., South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA.

The development of distinct vertebrate neurons is defined by the unique profiles 
of genes that neurons express. It is accepted that neural genes are regulated at 
the point of transcription initiation, but the role of messenger RNA elongation
in neural gene regulation has not been examined. Here we describe the mutant
foggy, identified in a genetic screen for mutations that affect neuronal
development in zebrafish, that displayed a reduction of dopamine-containing
neurons and a corresponding surplus of serotonin-containing neurons in the
hypothalamus. Positional cloning disclosed that Foggy is a brain-enriched nuclear
protein that is structurally related to the transcription elongation factor Spt5 
(refs 5-12). Foggy is not part of the basic transcription apparatus but a
phosphorylation-dependent, dual regulator of transcription elongation. The
mutation disrupts its repressive but not its stimulatory activity. Our results
provide molecular, genetic and biochemical evidence that negative regulators of
transcription elongation control key aspects of neuronal development.

DOI: 10.1038/35042590 
PMID: 11099044  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Nature. 2000 Nov 16;408(6810):361-5.

Real-time prediction of hand trajectory by ensembles of cortical neurons in
primates.

Wessberg J(1), Stambaugh CR, Kralik JD, Beck PD, Laubach M, Chapin JK, Kim J,
Biggs SJ, Srinivasan MA, Nicolelis MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27710,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Nov 16;408(6810):305-6.

Signals derived from the rat motor cortex can be used for controlling
one-dimensional movements of a robot arm. It remains unknown, however, whether
real-time processing of cortical signals can be employed to reproduce, in a
robotic device, the kind of complex arm movements used by primates to reach
objects in space. Here we recorded the simultaneous activity of large populations
of neurons, distributed in the premotor, primary motor and posterior parietal
cortical areas, as non-human primates performed two distinct motor tasks.
Accurate real-time predictions of one- and three-dimensional arm movement
trajectories were obtained by applying both linear and nonlinear algorithms to
cortical neuronal ensemble activity recorded from each animal. In addition,
cortically derived signals were successfully used for real-time control of
robotic devices, both locally and through the Internet. These results suggest
that long-term control of complex prosthetic robot arm movements can be achieved 
by simple real-time transformations of neuronal population signals derived from
multiple cortical areas in primates.

DOI: 10.1038/35042582 
PMID: 11099043  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Nature. 2000 Nov 16;408(6810):357-61.

Imagery neurons in the human brain.

Kreiman G(1), Koch C, Fried I.

Author information: 
(1)Computation and Neural Systems Program, California Institute of Technology,
Pasadena 91125, USA.

Vivid visual images can be voluntarily generated in our minds in the absence of
simultaneous visual input. While trying to count the number of flowers in Van
Gogh's Sunflowers, understanding a description or recalling a path, subjects
report forming an image in their "mind's eye". Whether this process is
accomplished by the same neuronal mechanisms as visual perception has long been a
matter of debate. Evidence from functional imaging, psychophysics, neurological
studies and monkey electrophysiology suggests a common process, yet there are
patients with deficits in one but not the other. Here we directly investigated
the neuronal substrates of visual recall by recording from single neurons in the 
human medial temporal lobe while the subjects were asked to imagine previously
viewed images. We found single neurons in the hippocampus, amygdala, entorhinal
cortex and parahippocampal gyrus that selectively altered their firing rates
depending on the stimulus the subjects were imagining. Of the neurons that fired 
selectively during both vision and imagery, the majority (88%) had identical
selectivity. Our study reveals single neuron correlates of volitional visual
imagery in humans and suggests a common substrate for the processing of incoming 
visual information and visual recall.

DOI: 10.1038/35042575 
PMID: 11099042  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Nature. 2000 Nov 16;408(6810):354-7.

Repeated, recent and diverse transfers of a mitochondrial gene to the nucleus in 
flowering plants.

Adams KL(1), Daley DO, Qiu YL, Whelan J, Palmer JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Indiana University, Bloomington 47405, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Nov 16;408(6810):302-3, 305.

A central component of the endosymbiotic theory for the bacterial origin of the
mitochondrion is that many of its genes were transferred to the nucleus. Most of 
this transfer occurred early in mitochondrial evolution; functional transfer of
mitochondrial genes has ceased in animals. Although mitochondrial gene transfer
continues to occur in plants, no comprehensive study of the frequency and timing 
of transfers during plant evolution has been conducted. Here we report frequent
loss (26 times) and transfer to the nucleus of the mitochondrial gene rps10 among
277 diverse angiosperms. Characterization of nuclear rps10 genes from 16 out of
26 loss lineages implies that many independent, RNA-mediated rps10 transfers
occurred during recent angiosperm evolution; each of the genes may represent a
separate functional gene transfer. Thus, rps10 has been transferred to the
nucleus at a surprisingly high rate during angiosperm evolution. The structures
of several nuclear rps10 genes reveal diverse mechanisms by which transferred
genes become activated, including parasitism of pre-existing nuclear genes for
mitochondrial or cytoplasmic proteins, and activation without gain of a
mitochondrial targeting sequence.

DOI: 10.1038/35042567 
PMID: 11099041  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Nature. 2000 Nov 16;408(6810):352-3.

Fine-scale genetic structuring on Manacus manacus leks.

Shorey L(1), Piertney S, Stone J, Höglund J.

Author information: 
(1)Population Biology/EBC, Uppsala University, Sweden. lisa.shorey@ebc.uu.se

Leks have traditionally been considered as arenas where males compete to attract 
females and secure matings. Thus, direct fitness benefits mediated through
competition between males to fertilize females have been considered to be the
primary force driving the evolution of lekking behaviour. Inclusive fitness
benefits mediated through kin selection may also be involved in lek formation and
evolution, but to date this theory has been largely ignored. According to
kin-selection theory, both reproducing and non-reproducing males may gain
indirect inclusive fitness benefits. If females are attracted to larger leks,
non-reproducing males add attractiveness to a lek, and therefore, in a
genetically structured population, boost the reproductive success of kin. Theory 
predicts that the attractiveness of leks is plastic, and that males establish
themselves on a lek in which the top male, in terms of reproductive success, is a
close relative. Here we show that in white-bearded manakins (Manacus manacus),
for which larger leks are more attractive to females and so secure the maximum
number of matings, there is extraordinary fine-scale genetic structure, with leks
being composed of clusters of related kin. We propose that males establish
themselves where they find relatives to such an extent that they form groups
within leks, and that such behaviour is consistent with kin-selection theory to
maximize reproductive success of the group.

DOI: 10.1038/35042562 
PMID: 11099040  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Nature. 2000 Nov 16;408(6810):349-52.

Microseismological evidence for a changing wave climate in the northeast Atlantic
Ocean.

Grevemeyer I(1), Herber R, Essen HH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Bremen, Germany.
ingo@geophys2.uni-bremen.de

One possible consequence of a change in climate over the past several decades is 
an increase in wave heights, potentially threatening coastal areas as well as the
marine industry. But the difficulties in observing wave heights exacerbates a
general problem of climate-change detection: inhomogeneities in long-term
observational records owing to changes in the instruments or techniques used,
which may cause artificial trends. Ground movements with periods of 4-16 seconds,
known as microseisms, are associated with ocean waves and coastal surf, and have 
been recorded continuously since the early days of seismology. Here we use such a
40-year record of wintertime microseisms from Hamburg, Germany, to reconstruct
the wave climate in the northeast Atlantic Ocean. For the period 1954-77, we
detect an average of seven days per month with strong microseismic activity,
without a significant trend. This number increases significantly in the second
half of the record, reaching approximately 14 days of strong microseisms per
month. The implied increase in northeast Atlantic wave height over the past 20
years parallels increased surface air temperatures and storminess in this region,
suggesting a common forcing.

DOI: 10.1038/35042558 
PMID: 11099039 


109. Nature. 2000 Nov 16;408(6810):346-9.

Increased marine production of N2O due to intensifying anoxia on the Indian
continental shelf.

Naqvi SW(1), Jayakumar DA, Narvekar PV, Naik H, Sarma VV, D'Souza W, Joseph S,
George MD.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Oceanography, Dona Paula, Goa, India.
naqvi@csnio.ren.nic.in

Eutrophication of surface waters and hypoxia in bottom waters has been increasing
in many coastal areas, leading to very large depletions of marine life in the
affected regions. These areas of high surface productivity and low bottom-water
oxygen concentration are caused by increasing runoff of nutrients from land.
Although the local ecological and socio-economic effects have received much
attention, the potential contribution of increasing hypoxia to global-change
phenomena is unknown. Here we report the intensification of one of the largest
low-oxygen zones in the ocean, which develops naturally over the western Indian
continental shelf during late summer and autumn. We also report the highest
accumulations yet observed of hydrogen sulphide (H2S) and nitrous oxide (N2O) in 
open coastal waters. Increased N2O production is probably caused by the addition 
of anthropogenic nitrate and its subsequent denitrification, which is favoured by
hypoxic conditions. We suggest that a global expansion of hypoxic zones may lead 
to an increase in marine production and emission of N2O, which, as a potent
greenhouse gas, could contribute significantly to the accumulation of radiatively
active trace gases in the atmosphere.

DOI: 10.1038/35042551 
PMID: 11099038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Nature. 2000 Nov 16;408(6810):342-6.

Kondo physics in carbon nanotubes.

Nygård J(1), Cobden DH, Lindelof PE.

Author information: 
(1)Orsted Laboratory, Niels Bohr Institute, Copenhagen, Denmark.

The connection of electrical leads to wire-like molecules is a logical step in
the development of molecular electronics, but also allows studies of fundamental 
physics. For example, metallic carbon nanotubes are quantum wires that have been 
found to act as one-dimensional quantum dots, Luttinger liquids,
proximity-induced superconductors and ballistic and diffusive one-dimensional
metals. Here we report that electrically contacted single-walled carbon nanotubes
can serve as powerful probes of Kondo physics, demonstrating the universality of 
the Kondo effect. Arising in the prototypical case from the interaction between a
localized impurity magnetic moment and delocalized electrons in a metallic host, 
the Kondo effect has been used to explain enhanced low-temperature scattering
from magnetic impurities in metals, and also occurs in transport through
semiconductor quantum dots. The far greater tunability of dots (in our case,
nanotubes) compared with atomic impurities renders new classes of Kondo-like
effects accessible. Our nanotube devices differ from previous systems in which
Kondo effects have been observed, in that they are one-dimensional quantum dots
with three-dimensional metal (gold) reservoirs. This allows us to observe Kondo
resonances for very large electron numbers (N) in the dot, and approaching the
unitary limit (where the transmission reaches its maximum possible value).
Moreover, we detect a previously unobserved Kondo effect, occurring for even
values of N in a magnetic field.

DOI: 10.1038/35042545 
PMID: 11099037 


111. Nature. 2000 Nov 16;408(6810):339-42.

Universal quantum computation with the exchange interaction.

DiVincenzo DP(1), Bacon D, Kempe J, Burkard G, Whaley KB.

Author information: 
(1)IBM Research Division, T. J. Watson Research Center, Yorktown Heights, New
York 10598, USA. divince@watson.ibm.com

Various physical implementations of quantum computers are being investigated,
although the requirements that must be met to make such devices a reality in the 
laboratory at present involve capabilities well beyond the state of the art.
Recent solid-state approaches have used quantum dots, donor-atom nuclear spins or
electron spins; in these architectures, the basic two-qubit quantum gate is
generated by a tunable exchange interaction between spins (a Heisenberg
interaction), whereas the one-qubit gates require control over a local magnetic
field. Compared to the Heisenberg operation, the one-qubit operations are
significantly slower, requiring substantially greater materials and device
complexity--potentially contributing to a detrimental increase in the decoherence
rate. Here we introduced an explicit scheme in which the Heisenberg interaction
alone suffices to implement exactly any quantum computer circuit. This capability
comes at a price of a factor of three in additional qubits, and about a factor of
ten in additional two-qubit operations. Even at this cost, the ability to
eliminate the complexity of one-qubit operations should accelerate progress
towards solid-state implementations of quantum computation.

DOI: 10.1038/35042541 
PMID: 11099036 


112. Nature. 2000 Nov 16;408(6810):337-9.

Mean-field cluster model for the critical behaviour of ferromagnets.

Chamberlin RV(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Arizona State University, Tempe
85287-1504, USA. ralph.chamberlin@asu.edu

Two separate theories are often used to characterize the paramagnetic properties 
of ferromagnetic materials. At temperatures T well above the Curie temperature,
Tc (where the transition from paramagnetic to ferromagnetic behaviour occurs),
classical mean-field theory yields the Curie-Weiss law for the magnetic
susceptibility: X(T) infinity 1/(T - Weiss constant), where Weiss constant is the
Weiss constant. Close to Tc, however, the standard mean-field approach breaks
down so that better agreement with experimental data is provided by critical
scaling theory: X(T) infinity 1/(T - Tc)gamma, where gamma is a scaling exponent.
But there is no known model capable of predicting the measured values of gamma
nor its variation among different substances. Here I use a mean-field cluster
model based on finite-size thermostatistics to extend the range of mean-field
theory, thereby eliminating the need for a separate scaling regime. The
mean-field approximation is justified by using a kinetic-energy term to maintain 
the microcanonical ensembles. The model reproduces the Curie-Weiss law at high
temperatures, but the classical Weiss transition at Tc = Weiss constant is
suppressed by finite-size effects. Instead, the fraction of clusters with a
specific amount of order diverges at Tc, yielding a transition that is
mathematically similar to Bose-Einstein condensation. At all temperatures above
Tc, the model matches the measured magnetic susceptibilities of crystalline EuO, 
Gd, Co and Ni, thus providing a unified picture for both the critical-scaling and
Curie-Weiss regimes.

DOI: 10.1038/35042534 
PMID: 11099035 


113. Nature. 2000 Nov 16;408(6810):331-6.

Functional genomic analysis of cell division in C. elegans using RNAi of genes on
chromosome III.

Gönczy P(1), Echeverri C, Oegema K, Coulson A, Jones SJ, Copley RR, Duperon J,
Oegema J, Brehm M, Cassin E, Hannak E, Kirkham M, Pichler S, Flohrs K, Goessen A,
Leidel S, Alleaume AM, Martin C, Ozlü N, Bork P, Hyman AA.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institute for Cell Biology and Genetics, Dresden, Germany.
Pierre.Gonczy@isrec.unil.ch

Genome sequencing projects generate a wealth of information; however, the
ultimate goal of such projects is to accelerate the identification of the
biological function of genes. This creates a need for comprehensive studies to
fill the gap between sequence and function. Here we report the results of a
functional genomic screen to identify genes required for cell division in
Caenorhabditis elegans. We inhibited the expression of approximately 96% of the
approximately 2,300 predicted open reading frames on chromosome III using
RNA-mediated interference (RNAi). By using an in vivo time-lapse differential
interference contrast microscopy assay, we identified 133 genes (approximately
6%) necessary for distinct cellular processes in early embryos. Our results
indicate that these genes represent most of the genes on chromosome III that are 
required for proper cell division in C. elegans embryos. The complete data set,
including sample time-lapse recordings, has been deposited in an open access
database. We found that approximately 47% of the genes associated with a
differential interference contrast phenotype have clear orthologues in other
eukaryotes, indicating that this screen provides putative gene functions for
other species as well.

DOI: 10.1038/35042526 
PMID: 11099034  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Nature. 2000 Nov 16;408(6810):325-30.

Functional genomic analysis of C. elegans chromosome I by systematic RNA
interference.

Fraser AG(1), Kamath RS, Zipperlen P, Martinez-Campos M, Sohrmann M, Ahringer J.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome/CRC Institute, University of Cambridge, UK.

Complete genomic sequence is known for two multicellular eukaryotes, the nematode
Caenorhabditis elegans and the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, and it will
soon be known for humans. However, biological function has been assigned to only 
a small proportion of the predicted genes in any animal. Here we have used
RNA-mediated interference (RNAi) to target nearly 90% of predicted genes on C.
elegans chromosome I by feeding worms with bacteria that express double-stranded 
RNA. We have assigned function to 13.9% of the genes analysed, increasing the
number of sequenced genes with known phenotypes on chromosome I from 70 to 378.
Although most genes with sterile or embryonic lethal RNAi phenotypes are involved
in basal cell metabolism, many genes giving post-embryonic phenotypes have
conserved sequences but unknown function. In addition, conserved genes are
significantly more likely to have an RNAi phenotype than are genes with no
conservation. We have constructed a reusable library of bacterial clones that
will permit unlimited RNAi screens in the future; this should help develop a more
complete view of the relationships between the genome, gene function and the
environment.

DOI: 10.1038/35042517 
PMID: 11099033  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Nature. 2000 Nov 16;408(6810):320-4.

Ancient Egyptian chronology and the astronomical orientation of pyramids.

Spence K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Oriental Studies, University of Cambridge, UK. kes1004@cam.ac.uk

The ancient Egyptian pyramids at Giza have never been accurately dated, although 
we know that they were built approximately around the middle of the third
millennium BC. The chronologies of this period have been reconstructed from
surviving lists of kings and the lengths of their reigns, but the lists are rare,
seldom complete and contain known inconsistencies and errors. As a result, the
existing chronologies for that period (the Old Kingdom) can be considered
accurate only to about +/-100 years, a figure that radiocarbon dating cannot at
present improve. Here I use trends in the orientation of Old Kingdom pyramids to 
demonstrate that the Egyptians aligned them to north by using the simultaneous
transit of two circumpolar stars. Modelling the precession of these stars yields 
a date for the start of construction of the Great Pyramid that is accurate to
+/-5 yr, thereby providing an anchor for the Old Kingdom chronologies.

DOI: 10.1038/35042510 
PMID: 11099032 


116. Nature. 2000 Nov 16;408(6810):313-9.

Feedback control of intercellular signalling in development.

Freeman M(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, UK. MF1@mrc-lmb.cam.ac.uk

The intercellular communication that regulates cell fate during animal
development must be precisely controlled to avoid dangerous errors. How is this
achieved? Recent work has highlighted the importance of positive and negative
feedback loops in the dynamic regulation of developmental signalling. These
feedback interactions can impart precision, robustness and versatility to
intercellular signals. Feedback failure can cause disease.

DOI: 10.1038/35042500 
PMID: 11099031  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):267-9.

The future of ageing.

Hayflick L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, University of California at San
Francisco, 95497, USA. len@gene.com

Advances in our knowledge of age-associated diseases have far outpaced advances
in our understanding of the fundamental ageing processes that underlie the
vulnerability to these pathologies. If we are to increase human life expectancy
beyond the fifteen-year limit that would result if today's leading causes of
death were resolved, more attention must be paid to basic research on ageing.
Determination of longevity must be distinguished from ageing to take us from the 
common question of why we age to a more revealing question that is rarely posed: 
why do we live as long as we do? But if the ability to intervene in ageing ever
becomes a reality, it will be rife with unintended and undesirable consequences.

DOI: 10.1038/35041709 
PMID: 11089985  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):263-6.

Lessons from human progeroid syndromes.

Martin GM(1), Oshima J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle 98195, USA.

A number of human genes have been identified in which mutations can lead to the
accelerated emergence of features of senescence. Studies of these genes, and of
the functions of their protein products, may lead to a clearer understanding of
the nature of senescence, and could provide clues for ways in which ageing might 
be retarded.

DOI: 10.1038/35041705 
PMID: 11089984  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):255-62.

Genetic pathways that regulate ageing in model organisms.

Guarente L(1), Kenyon C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 02139,
USA.

Searches for genes involved in the ageing process have been made in genetically
tractable model organisms such as yeast, the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans,
Drosophila melanogaster fruitflies and mice. These genetic studies have
established that ageing is indeed regulated by specific genes, and have allowed
an analysis of the pathways involved, linking physiology, signal transduction and
gene regulation. Intriguing similarities in the phenotypes of many of these
mutants indicate that the mutations may also perturb regulatory systems that
control ageing in higher organisms.

DOI: 10.1038/35041700 
PMID: 11089983  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):248-54.

The age of cancer.

DePinho RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Adult Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. ron_depinho@dfci.harvard.edu

A striking link exists between advanced age and increased incidence of cancer.
Here I review how several of the age-related molecular and physiological changes 
might act in concert to promote cancer, and in particular epithelial
carcinogenesis. Experimental data indicate that the aged, cancer-prone phenotype 
might represent the combined pathogenetic effects of mutation load, epigenetic
regulation, telomere dysfunction and altered stromal milieu. Further verification
of the role of these effects should in turn lead to the design of effective
therapeutics for the treatment and prevention of cancer in the aged.

DOI: 10.1038/35041694 
PMID: 11089982  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


121. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):239-47.

Oxidants, oxidative stress and the biology of ageing.

Finkel T(1), Holbrook NJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, National Heart, Lung, and Blood
Institute/National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-1622, USA.
finkelt@nih.gov

Living in an oxygenated environment has required the evolution of effective
cellular strategies to detect and detoxify metabolites of molecular oxygen known 
as reactive oxygen species. Here we review evidence that the appropriate and
inappropriate production of oxidants, together with the ability of organisms to
respond to oxidative stress, is intricately connected to ageing and life span.

DOI: 10.1038/35041687 
PMID: 11089981  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):233-8.

Why do we age?

Kirkwood TB(1), Austad SN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gerontology, University of Newcastle, Institute for the Health
of the Elderly, Newcastle General Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

The evolutionary theory of ageing explains why ageing occurs, giving valuable
insight into the mechanisms underlying the complex cellular and molecular changes
that contribute to senescence. Such understanding also helps to clarify how the
genome shapes the ageing process, thereby aiding the study of the genetic factors
that influence longevity and age-associated diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/35041682 
PMID: 11089980  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):225-9.

A transcription reinitiation intermediate that is stabilized by activator.

Yudkovsky N(1), Ranish JA, Hahn S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Basic Sciences, The Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center,
University of Washington, Seattle 98109, USA.

High levels of gene transcription by RNA polymerase II depend on high rates of
transcription initiation and reinitiation. Initiation requires recruitment of the
complete transcription machinery to a promoter, a process facilitated by
activators and chromatin remodelling factors. Reinitiation probably occurs
through a different pathway. After initiation, a subset of the transcription
machinery remains at the promoter, forming a platform for assembly of a second
transcription complex. Here we describe the isolation of a reinitiation
intermediate that includes transcription factors TFIID, TFIIA, TFIIH, TFIIE and
Mediator. This intermediate can act as a scaffold for formation of a functional
reinitiation complex. Formation of this scaffold is dependent on ATP and TFIIH.
The scaffold is stabilized in the presence of the activator Gal4-VP16, but not
Gal4-AH, suggesting a new role for some activators and Mediator in promoting high
levels of transcription.

DOI: 10.1038/35041603 
PMID: 11089979  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):221-5.

PCNA connects DNA replication to epigenetic inheritance in yeast.

Zhang Z(1), Shibahara K, Stillman B.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, New York 11724, USA.

Formation of a heterochromatin-like structure results in transcriptional
silencing at the HM mating-type loci and telomeres in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
Once formed, such epigenetically determined structures are inherited for many
mitotic divisions. Here we show that mutations in the proliferating cell nuclear 
antigen (PCNA), an essential component at the DNA replication fork, reduced
repression of genes near a telomere and at the silent mating-typelocus, HMR. The 
pol30-8 mutant displayed coexistence of both repressed (pink) and de-repressed
(white) cells within a single colony when assayed with the ADE2 gene inserted at 
HMR. Unlike pol30-8, the pol30-6 and pol30-79 mutants partially reduced gene
silencing at telomeres and the HMR and synergistically decreased silencing in
cells lacking chromatin assembly factor 1 (CAF-1). All silencing defective
mutants showed reduced binding to CAF-1 in vitro and altered chromatin
association of the CAF-1 large subunit in vivo. Thus, PCNA participates in
inheritance of both DNA and epigenetic chromatin structures during the S phase of
the cell cycle, the latter by at least two mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1038/35041601 
PMID: 11089978  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):216-21.

Cell-cycle-regulated DNA double-stranded breaks in somatic hypermutation of
immunoglobulin genes.

Papavasiliou FN(1), Schatz DG.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Immunobiology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Yale University
School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520-8011, USA.

Targeted hypermutation of immunoglobulin variable region genes occurs in B cells 
during an immune response, and gives rise to families of related mutant
antibodies which are then selected for their binding affinity to the immunizing
antigen. Somatic hypermutation predominantly generates point mutations, many of
which occur at specific residues (hotspots). The reaction has been linked to
transcription and requires the presence of immunoglobulin enhancers, but
replacement of the variable gene by heterologous sequences, or the variable
region promoter by a heterologous promoter, does not interfere with the mutation 
process. Here we show the existence of abundant DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs)
in hypermutating sequences. Generation of the DSBs is coupled to transcription,
enhancer-dependent, and correlates with the appearance of nearby mutations.
Furthermore, the DSBs are cell-cycle restricted, being found almost exclusively
in cells that have completed, or nearly completed, DNA replication. We propose a 
model for somatic hypermutation in which mutations are introduced into the DNA
during repair of DSBs by homologous recombination. The finding of DSBs during
somatic hypermutation may help to explain the chromosomal translocations found in
some B-cell tumours.

DOI: 10.1038/35041599 
PMID: 11089977  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):211-6.

Intracellular action of the cytokine MIF to modulate AP-1 activity and the cell
cycle through Jab1.

Kleemann R(1), Hausser A, Geiger G, Mischke R, Burger-Kentischer A, Flieger O,
Johannes FJ, Roger T, Calandra T, Kapurniotu A, Grell M, Finkelmeier D, Brunner
H, Bernhagen J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biochemistry/Institute for Interfacial Engineering, University
of Stuttgart, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):146-7.

Cytokines are multifunctional mediators that classically modulate immune activity
by receptor-mediated pathways. Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) is a 
cytokine that has a critical role in several inflammatory conditions but that
also has endocrine and enzymatic functions. The molecular targets of MIF action
have so far remained unclear. Here we show that MIF specifically interacts with
an intracellular protein, Jab1, which is a coactivator of AP-1 transcription that
also promotes degradation of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27Kip1 (ref. 
10). MIF colocalizes with Jab1 in the cytosol, and both endogenous and
exogenously added MIF following endocytosis bind Jab1. MIF inhibits Jab1- and
stimulus-enhanced AP-1 activity, but does not interfere with the induction of the
transcription factor NFkappaB. Jab1 activates c-Jun amino-terminal kinase (JNK)
activity and enhances endogenous phospho-c-Jun levels, and MIF inhibits these
effects. MIF also antagonizes Jab1-dependent cell-cycle regulation by increasing 
p27Kip1 expression through stabilization of p27Kip1 protein. Consequently,
Jab1-mediated rescue of fibroblasts from growth arrest is blocked by MIF. Amino
acids 50-65 and Cys 60 of MIF are important for Jab1 binding and modulation. We
conclude that MIF may act broadly to negatively regulate Jab1-controlled pathways
and that the MIF-Jab1 interaction may provide a molecular basis for key
activities of MIF.

DOI: 10.1038/35041591 
PMID: 11089976  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):207-11.

Functional interaction of phytochrome B and cryptochrome 2.

Más P(1), Devlin PF, Panda S, Kay SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and National Science Foundation Center for
Biological Timing, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037,
USA.

Light is a crucial environmental signal that controls many photomorphogenic and
circadian responses in plants. Perception and transduction of light is achieved
by at least two principal groups of photoreceptors, phytochromes and
cryptochromes. Phytochromes are red/far-red light-absorbing receptors encoded by 
a gene family of five members (phyA to phyE) in Arabidopsis. Cryptochrome 1
(cry1), cryptochrome 2 (cry2) and phototropin are the blue/ultraviolet-A light
receptors that have been characterized in Arabidopsis. Previous studies showed
that modulation of many physiological responses in plants is achieved by genetic 
interactions between different photoreceptors; however, little is known about the
nature of these interactions and their roles in the signal transduction pathway. 
Here we show the genetic interaction that occurs between the Arabidopsis
photoreceptors phyB and cry2 in the control of flowering time, hypocotyl
elongation and circadian period by the clock. PhyB interacts directly with cry2
as observed in co-immunoprecipitation experiments with transgenic Arabidopsis
plants overexpressing cry2. Using fluorescent resonance energy transfer
microscopy, we show that phyB and cry2 interact in nuclear speckles that are
formed in a light-dependent fashion.

DOI: 10.1038/35041583 
PMID: 11089975  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):203-6.

Regulation of repulsion versus adhesion by different splice forms of an Eph
receptor.

Holmberg J(1), Clarke DL, Frisén J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm,
Sweden. jonas.frisen@cmb.ki.se

Eph tyrosine kinase receptors and their membrane-bound ephrin ligands mediate
cell interactions and participate in several developmental processes. Ligand
binding to an Eph receptor results in tyrosine phosphorylation of the kinase
domain, and repulsion of axonal growth cones and migrating cells. Here we report 
that a subpopulation of ephrin-A5 null mice display neural tube defects
resembling anencephaly in man. This is caused by the failure of the neural folds 
to fuse in the dorsal midline, suggesting that ephrin-A5, in addition to its
involvement in cell repulsion, can participate in cell adhesion. During
neurulation, ephrin-A5 is co-expressed with its cognate receptor EphA7 in cells
at the edges of the dorsal neural folds. Three different EphA7 splice variants, a
full-length form and two truncated versions lacking kinase domains, are expressed
in the neural folds. Co-expression of an endogenously expressed truncated form of
EphA7 suppresses tyrosine phosphorylation of the full-length EphA7 receptor and
shifts the cellular response from repulsion to adhesion in vitro. We conclude
that alternative usage of different splice forms of a tyrosine kinase receptor
can mediate cellular adhesion or repulsion during embryonic development.

DOI: 10.1038/35041577 
PMID: 11089974  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):199-203.

Distinct functions of the two isoforms of dopamine D2 receptors.

Usiello A(1), Baik JH, Rougé-Pont F, Picetti R, Dierich A, LeMeur M, Piazza PV,
Borrelli E.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Génétique et de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire, CNRS, INSERM, 
ULP, Illkirch, C.U. de Strasbourg, France.

Signalling through dopamine D2 receptors governs physiological functions related 
to locomotion, hormone production and drug abuse. D2 receptors are also known
targets of antipsychotic drugs that are used to treat neuropsychiatric disorders 
such as schizophrenia. By a mechanism of alternative splicing, the D2 receptor
gene encodes two molecularly distinct isoforms, D2S and D2L, previously thought
to have the same function. Here we show that these receptors have distinct
functions in vivo; D2L acts mainly at postsynaptic sites and D2S serves
presynaptic autoreceptor functions. The cataleptic effects of the widely used
antipsychotic haloperidol are absent in D2L-deficient mice. This suggests that
D2L is targeted by haloperidol, with implications for treatment of
neuropsychiatric disorders. The absence of D2L reveals that D2S inhibits D1
receptor-mediated functions, uncovering a circuit of signalling interference
between dopamine receptors.

DOI: 10.1038/35041572 
PMID: 11089973  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):196-9.

Tracking an object through feature space.

Blaser E(1), Pylyshyn ZW, Holcombe AO.

Author information: 
(1)Rutgers Center for Cognitive Science, Rutgers University, Piscataway, New
Jersey 08854, USA. blaser@ruccs.rutgers.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):154-5.

Visual attention allows an observer to select certain visual information for
specialized processing. Selection is readily apparent in 'tracking' tasks where
even with the eyes fixed, observers can track a target as it moves among
identical distractor items. In such a case, a target is distinguished by its
spatial trajectory. Here we show that one can keep track of a stationary item
solely on the basis of its changing appearance--specified by its trajectory along
colour, orientation, and spatial frequency dimensions--even when a distractor
shares the same spatial location. This ability to track through feature space
bears directly on competing theories of attention, that is, on whether attention 
can select locations in space, features such as colour or shape, or particular
visual objects composed of constellations of visual features. Our results affirm,
consistent with a growing body of psychophysical and neurophysiological evidence,
that attention can indeed select specific visual objects. Furthermore,
feature-space tracking extends the definition of visual object to include not
only items with well defined spatio-temporal trajectories, but also those with
well defined featuro-temporal trajectories.

DOI: 10.1038/35041567 
PMID: 11089972  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):194-6.

Spatial synchronization of vole population dynamics by predatory birds.

Ims RA(1), Andreassen HP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Oslo, Norway. r.a.ims@bio.uio.no

Northern vole populations exhibit large-scale, spatially synchronous population
dynamics. Such cases of population synchrony provide excellent opportunities for 
distinguishing between local intrinsic and regional extrinsic mechanisms of
population regulation. Analyses of large-scale survey data and theoretical
modelling have indicated several plausible synchronizing mechanisms. It is
difficult, however, to determine the most important one without detailed data on 
local demographic processes. Here we combine results from two field studies in
southeastern Norway--one identifies local demographic mechanisms and
landscape-level annual synchrony among 28 enclosed experimental populations and
the other examines region-level multi-annual synchrony in open natural
populations. Despite fences eliminating predatory mammals and vole dispersal, the
growth rates of the experimental populations were synchronized and moreover,
perfectly linked with vole abundance in the region. The fates of 481 radio-marked
voles showed that bird predation was the synchronizing mechanism. A higher
frequency of risky dispersal movements in slowly growing populations appeared to 
accelerate predation rate. Thus, dispersal may induce a feedback-loop between
predation and population growth that enhances synchrony.

DOI: 10.1038/35041562 
PMID: 11089971  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):190-3.

An artificial landscape-scale fishery in the Bolivian Amazon.

Erickson CL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia
19104-6398, USA. cerickso@sas.upenn.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):145-6.

Historical ecologists working in the Neotropics argue that the present natural
environment is an historical product of human intentionality and ingenuity, a
creation that is imposed, built, managed and maintained by the collective
multigenerational knowledge and experience of Native Americans. In the past
12,000 years, indigenous peoples transformed the environment, creating what we
now recognize as the rich ecological mosaic of the Neotropics. The prehispanic
savanna peoples of the Bolivian Amazon built an anthropogenic landscape through
the construction of raised fields, large settlement mounds, and earthen
causeways. I have studied a complex artificial network of hydraulic earthworks
covering 525 km2 in the Baures region of Bolivia. Here I identify a particular
form of earthwork, the zigzag structure, as a fish weir, on the basis of form,
orientation, location, association with other hydraulic works and ethnographic
analogy. The native peoples used this technology to harvest sufficient animal
protein to sustain large and dense populations in a savanna environment.

DOI: 10.1038/35041555 
PMID: 11089970  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):187-90.

Offset of the potential carbon sink from boreal forestation by decreases in
surface albedo.

Betts RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hadley Centre for Climate Prediction and Research, The Met Office, Bracknell, 
Berkshire, UK. rabetts@meto.gov.uk

Carbon uptake by forestation is one method proposed to reduce net carbon dioxide 
emissions to the atmosphere and so limit the radiative forcing of climate change.
But the overall impact of forestation on climate will also depend on other
effects associated with the creation of new forests. In particular, the albedo of
a forested landscape is generally lower than that of cultivated land, especially 
when snow is lying, and decreasing albedo exerts a positive radiative forcing on 
climate. Here I simulate the radiative forcings associated with changes in
surface albedo as a result of forestation in temperate and boreal forest areas,
and translate these forcings into equivalent changes in local carbon stock for
comparison with estimated carbon sequestration potentials. I suggest that in many
boreal forest areas, the positive forcing induced by decreases in albedo can
offset the negative forcing that is expected from carbon sequestration. Some
high-latitude forestation activities may therefore increase climate change,
rather than mitigating it as intended.

DOI: 10.1038/35041545 
PMID: 11089969  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):184-7.

Acceleration of global warming due to carbon-cycle feedbacks in a coupled climate
model.

Cox PM(1), Betts RA, Jones CD, Spall SA, Totterdell IJ.

Author information: 
(1)Hadley Centre, The Met Office, Bracknell, Berkshire, UK. pmcox@meto.gov.uk

The continued increase in the atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide due to 
anthropogenic emissions is predicted to lead to significant changes in climate.
About half of the current emissions are being absorbed by the ocean and by land
ecosystems, but this absorption is sensitive to climate as well as to atmospheric
carbon dioxide concentrations, creating a feedback loop. General circulation
models have generally excluded the feedback between climate and the biosphere,
using static vegetation distributions and CO2 concentrations from simple
carbon-cycle models that do not include climate change. Here we present results
from a fully coupled, three-dimensional carbon-climate model, indicating that
carbon-cycle feedbacks could significantly accelerate climate change over the
twenty-first century. We find that under a 'business as usual' scenario, the
terrestrial biosphere acts as an overall carbon sink until about 2050, but turns 
into a source thereafter. By 2100, the ocean uptake rate of 5 Gt C yr(-1) is
balanced by the terrestrial carbon source, and atmospheric CO2 concentrations are
250 p.p.m.v. higher in our fully coupled simulation than in uncoupled carbon
models, resulting in a global-mean warming of 5.5 K, as compared to 4 K without
the carbon-cycle feedback.

DOI: 10.1038/35041539 
PMID: 11089968 


135. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):181-4.

An enantiomerically pure hydrogen-bonded assembly.

Prins LJ(1), De Jong F, Timmerman P, Reinhoudt DN.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Supramolecular Chemistry and Technology, MESA Research
Institute, University of Twente, Enschede, The Netherlands.

Chiral molecules have asymmetric arrangements of atoms, forming structures that
are non-superposable mirror images of each other. Specific mirror images
('enantiomers') may be obtained either from enantiomerically pure precursor
compounds, through enantioselective synthesis, or by resolution of so-called
racemic mixtures of opposite enantiomers, provided that racemization (the
spontaneous interconversion of enantiomers) is sufficiently slow. Non-covalent
assemblies can similarly adopt chiral supramolecular structures, and if they are 
held together by relatively strong interactions, such as metal coordination,
methods analogous to those used to obtain chiral molecules yield enantiomerically
pure non-covalent products. But the resolution of assemblies formed through weak 
interactions, such as hydrogen-bonding, remains challenging, reflecting their
lower stability and significantly higher susceptibility to racemization. Here we 
report the design of supramolecular structures from achiral calix[4]arene
dimelamines and cyanurates, which form multiple cooperative hydrogen bonds that
together provide sufficient stability to allow the isolation of enantiomerically 
pure assemblies. Our design strategy is based on a non-covalent 'chiral memory'
concept, whereby we first use chiral barbiturates to induce the supramolecular
chirality in a hydrogen-bonded assembly, and then substitute them by achiral
cyanurates. The stability of the resultant chiral assemblies in benzene, a
non-polar solvent not competing for hydrogen bonds, is manifested by a half-life 
to racemization of more than four days at room temperature.

DOI: 10.1038/35041530 
PMID: 11089967 


136. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):178-81.

Reversible phase transitions in polymer gels induced by radiation forces.

Juodkazis S(1), Mukai N, Wakaki R, Yamaguchi A, Matsuo S, Misawa H.

Author information: 
(1)Satellite Venture Business Laboratory of Photonic Nano-Materials, The
University of Tokushima, Japan.

Many polymer gels undergo reversible, discontinuous volume changes in response to
changes in the balance between repulsive intermolecular forces that act to expand
the polymer network and attractive forces that act to shrink it. Repulsive forces
are usually electrostatic or hydrophobic in nature, whereas attraction is
mediated by hydrogen bonding or van der Waals interactions. The competition
between these counteracting forces, and hence the gel volume, can thus be
controlled by subtle changes in parameters such as pH (ref. 4), temperature,
solvent composition or gel composition. Here we describe a more direct influence 
on this balance of forces, by showing that the radiation force generated by a
focused laser beam induces reversible shrinkage in polymer gels. Control
experiments confirm that the laser-induced volume phase transitions are due to
radiation forces, rather than local heating, modifying the weak interactions in
the gels, in agreement with previous observations of light-induced chain
association in polymer solutions. We find that, owing to shear-relaxation
processes, gel shrinkage occurs up to several tens of micrometres away from the
irradiation spot, raising the prospect that the combination of stimuli-responsive
polymer gels and laser light might lead to new gel-based systems for applications
such as actuating or sensing.

DOI: 10.1038/35041522 
PMID: 11089966 


137. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):174-8.

New high-pressure phases of lithium.

Hanfland M(1), Syassen K, Christensen NE, Novikov DL.

Author information: 
(1)European Synchrotron Radiation Facility, Grenoble, France.

Lithium is considered a 'simple' metal because, under ordinary conditions of
pressure and temperature, the motion of conduction electrons is only weakly
perturbed by interactions with the cubic lattice of atomic cores. It was recently
predicted that at pressures below 100 GPa, dense Li may undergo several
structural transitions, possibly leading to a 'paired-atom' phase with low
symmetry and near-insulating properties. Here we report synchrotron X-ray
diffraction measurements that confirm that Li undergoes pronounced structural
changes under pressure. Near 39 GPa, the element transforms from a high-pressure 
face-centred-cubic phase, through an intermediate rhombohedral modification, to a
cubic polymorph with 16 atoms per unit cell. This cubic phase has not been
observed previously in any element; unusually, its calculated electronic density 
of states exhibits a pronounced semimetal-like minimum near the Fermi energy. We 
present total-energy calculations that provide theoretical support for the
observed phase transition sequence. Our calculations indicate a large stability
range of the 16-atom cubic phase relative to various other crystal structures
tested here.

DOI: 10.1038/35041515 
PMID: 11089965 


138. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):167-73.

Structure and assembly of the Alu domain of the mammalian signal recognition
particle.

Weichenrieder O(1), Wild K, Strub K, Cusack S.

Author information: 
(1)European Molecular Laboratory Biology, Grenoble Outstation, France.

The Alu domain of the mammalian signal recognition particle (SRP) comprises the
heterodimer of proteins SRP9 and SRP14 bound to the 5' and 3' terminal sequences 
of SRP RNA. It retards the ribosomal elongation of signal-peptide-containing
proteins before their engagement with the translocation machinery in the
endoplasmic reticulum. Here we report two crystal structures of the heterodimer
SRP9/14 bound either to the 5' domain or to a construct containing both 5' and 3'
domains. We present a model of the complete Alu domain that is consistent with
extensive biochemical data. SRP9/14 binds strongly to the conserved core of the
5' domain, which forms a U-turn connecting two helical stacks. Reversible docking
of the more weakly bound 3' domain might be functionally important in the
mechanism of translational regulation. The Alu domain structure is probably
conserved in other cytoplasmic ribonucleoprotein particles and retroposition
intermediates containing SRP9/14-bound RNAs transcribed from Alu repeats or
related elements in genomic DNA.

DOI: 10.1038/35041507 
PMID: 11089964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):161-6.

Chemical and biological trends during lake evolution in recently deglaciated
terrain.

Engstrom DR(1), Fritz SC, Almendinger JE, Juggins S.

Author information: 
(1)St Croix Watershed Research Station, Science Museum of Minnesota, Marine on St
Croix 55047, USA. dengstrom@smm.org

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):149-50.

As newly formed landscapes evolve, physical and biological changes occur that are
collectively known as primary succession. Although succession is a fundamental
concept in ecology, it is poorly understood in the context of aquatic
environments. The prevailing view is that lakes become more enriched in nutrients
as they age, leading to increased biological production. Here we report the
opposite pattern of lake development, observed from the water chemistry of lakes 
that formed at various times within the past 10,000 years during glacial retreat 
at Glacier Bay, Alaska. The lakes have grown more dilute and acidic with time,
accumulated dissolved organic carbon and undergone a transient rise in nitrogen
concentration, all as a result of successional changes in surrounding vegetation 
and soils. Similar trends are evident from fossil diatom stratigraphy of lake
sediment cores. These results demonstrate a tight hydrologic coupling between
terrestrial and aquatic environments during the colonization of newly deglaciated
landscapes, and provide a conceptual basis for mechanisms of primary succession
in boreal lake ecosystems.

DOI: 10.1038/35041500 
PMID: 11089963  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Nature. 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):115-20.

Structural basis for the activation of 20S proteasomes by 11S regulators.

Whitby FG(1), Masters EI, Kramer L, Knowlton JR, Yao Y, Wang CC, Hill CP.

Author information: 
(1)Biochemistry Department, University of Utah, Salt Lake City 84132, USA.

Most of the non-lysosomal proteolysis that occurs in eukaryotic cells is
performed by a nonspecific and abundant barrel-shaped complex called the 20S
proteasome. Substrates access the active sites, which are sequestered in an
internal chamber, by traversing a narrow opening (alpha-annulus) that is blocked 
in the unliganded 20S proteasome by amino-terminal sequences of alpha-subunits.
Peptide products probably exit the 20S proteasome through the same opening. 11S
regulators (also called PA26 (ref. 4), PA28 (ref. 5) and REG) are heptamers that 
stimulate 20S proteasome peptidase activity in vitro and may facilitate product
release in vivo. Here we report the co-crystal structure of yeast 20S proteasome 
with the 11S regulator from Trypanosoma brucei (PA26). PA26 carboxy-terminal
tails provide binding affinity by inserting into pockets on the 20S proteasome,
and PA26 activation loops induce conformational changes in alpha-subunits that
open the gate separating the proteasome interior from the intracellular
environment. The reduction in processivity expected for an open conformation of
the exit gate may explain the role of 11S regulators in the production of ligands
for major histocompatibility complex class I molecules.

DOI: 10.1038/35040607 
PMID: 11081519  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Nature. 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):111-5.

Structural basis for signal transduction by the Toll/interleukin-1 receptor
domains.

Xu Y(1), Tao X, Shen B, Horng T, Medzhitov R, Manley JL, Tong L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Columbia University, New York, New York
10027, USA.

Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and the interleukin-1 receptor superfamily (IL-1Rs)
are integral to both innate and adaptive immunity for host defence. These
receptors share a conserved cytoplasmic domain, known as the TIR domain. A
single-point mutation in the TIR domain of murine TLR4 (Pro712His, the Lps(d)
mutation) abolishes the host immune response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and
mutation of the equivalent residue in TLR2, Pro681His, disrupts signal
transduction in response to stimulation by yeast and gram-positive bacteria. Here
we report the crystal structures of the TIR domains of human TLR1 and TLR2 and of
the Pro681His mutant of TLR2. The structures have a large conserved surface patch
that also contains the site of the Lps(d) mutation. Mutagenesis and functional
studies confirm that residues in this surface patch are crucial for receptor
signalling. The Lps(d) mutation does not disturb the structure of the TIR domain 
itself. Instead, structural and functional studies indicate that the conserved
surface patch may mediate interactions with the down-stream MyD88 adapter
molecule, and that the Lps(d) mutation may abolish receptor signalling by
disrupting this recruitment.

DOI: 10.1038/35040600 
PMID: 11081518  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Nature. 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):106-11.

Signal-dependent nuclear export of a histone deacetylase regulates muscle
differentiation.

McKinsey TA(1), Zhang CL, Lu J, Olson EN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center at Dallas, 75390-9148, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):46-7.

Members of the myocyte enhancer factor-2 (MEF2) family of transcription factors
associate with myogenic basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors such as MyoD
to activate skeletal myogenesis. MEF2 proteins also interact with the class II
histone deacetylases HDAC4 and HDAC5, resulting in repression of MEF2-dependent
genes. Execution of the muscle differentiation program requires release of MEF2
from repression by HDACs, which are expressed constitutively in myoblasts and
myotubes. Here we show that HDAC5 shuttles from the nucleus to the cytoplasm when
myoblasts are triggered to differentiate. Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein
kinase (CaMK) signalling, which stimulates myogenesis and prevents formation of
MEF2-HDAC complexes, also induces nuclear export of HDAC4 and HDAC5 by
phosphorylation of these transcriptional repressors. An HDAC5 mutant lacking two 
CaMK phosphorylation sites is resistant to CaMK-mediated nuclear export and acts 
as a dominant inhibitor of skeletal myogenesis, whereas a cytoplasmic HDAC5
mutant is unable to block efficiently the muscle differentiation program. Our
results highlight a mechanism for transcriptional regulation through signal- and 
differentiation-dependent nuclear export of a chromatin-remodelling enzyme, and
suggest that nucleo-cytoplasmic trafficking of HDACs is involved in the control
of cellular differentiation.

DOI: 10.1038/35040593 
PMCID: PMC4459600
PMID: 11081517  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Nature. 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):101-6.

Identification of genes that modify ataxin-1-induced neurodegeneration.

Fernandez-Funez P(1), Nino-Rosales ML, de Gouyon B, She WC, Luchak JM, Martinez
P, Turiegano E, Benito J, Capovilla M, Skinner PJ, McCall A, Canal I, Orr HT,
Zoghbi HY, Botas J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

A growing number of human neurodegenerative diseases result from the expansion of
a glutamine repeat in the protein that causes the disease. Spinocerebellar ataxia
type 1 (SCA1) is one such disease-caused by expansion of a polyglutamine tract in
the protein ataxin-1. To elucidate the genetic pathways and molecular mechanisms 
underlying neuronal degeneration in this group of diseases, we have created a
model system for SCA1 by expressing the full-length human SCA1 gene in
Drosophila. Here we show that high levels of wild-type ataxin-1 can cause
degenerative phenotypes similar to those caused by the expanded protein. We
conducted genetic screens to identify genes that modify SCA1-induced
neurodegeneration. Several modifiers highlight the role of protein folding and
protein clearance in the development of SCA1. Furthermore, new mechanisms of
polyglutamine pathogenesis were revealed by the discovery of modifiers that are
involved in RNA processing, transcriptional regulation and cellular
detoxification. These findings may be relevant to the treatment of polyglutamine 
diseases and, perhaps, to other neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's
and Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1038/35040584 
PMID: 11081516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Nature. 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):96-101.

Bidirectional control of airway responsiveness by endogenous cannabinoids.

Calignano A(1), Kátona I, Désarnaud F, Giuffrida A, La Rana G, Mackie K, Freund
TF, Piomelli D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Naples, Italy.

Smoking marijuana or administration of its main active constituent,
delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta9-THC), may exert potent dilating effects on
human airways. But the physiological significance of this observation and its
potential therapeutic value are obscured by the fact that some asthmatic patients
respond to these compounds with a paradoxical bronchospasm. The mechanisms
underlying these contrasting responses remain unresolved. Here we show that the
endogenous cannabinoid anandamide exerts dual effects on bronchial responsiveness
in rodents: it strongly inhibits bronchospasm and cough evoked by the chemical
irritant, capsaicin, but causes bronchospasm when the constricting tone exerted
by the vagus nerve is removed. Both effects are mediated through peripheral CB1
cannabinoid receptors found on axon terminals of airway nerves. Biochemical
analyses indicate that anandamide is synthesized in lung tissue on calcium-ion
stimulation, suggesting that locally generated anandamide participates in the
intrinsic control of airway responsiveness. In support of this conclusion, the
CB1 antagonist SR141716A enhances capsaicin-evoked bronchospasm and cough. Our
results may account for the contrasting bronchial actions of cannabis-like drugs 
in humans, and provide a framework for the development of more selective
cannabinoid-based agents for the treatment of respiratory pathologies.

DOI: 10.1038/35040576 
PMID: 11081515  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Nature. 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):92-6.

Flk1-positive cells derived from embryonic stem cells serve as vascular
progenitors.

Yamashita J(1), Itoh H, Hirashima M, Ogawa M, Nishikawa S, Yurugi T, Naito M,
Nakao K, Nishikawa S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Clinical Science, Kyoto University Graduate School 
of Medicine, Japan. juny@kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):43, 45.

Interaction between endothelial cells and mural cells (pericytes and vascular
smooth muscle) is essential for vascular development and maintenance. Endothelial
cells arise from Flk1-expressing (Flk1+) mesoderm cells, whereas mural cells are 
believed to derive from mesoderm, neural crest or epicardial cells and migrate to
form the vessel wall. Difficulty in preparing pure populations of these lineages 
has hampered dissection of the mechanisms underlying vascular formation. Here we 
show that Flk1+ cells derived from embryonic stem cells can differentiate into
both endothelial and mural cells and can reproduce the vascular organization
process. Vascular endothelial growth factor promotes endothelial cell
differentiation, whereas mural cells are induced by platelet-derived growth
factor-BB. Vascular cells derived from Flk1+ cells can organize into vessel-like 
structures consisting of endothelial tubes supported by mural cells in
three-dimensional culture. Injection of Flk1+ cells into chick embryos showed
that they can incorporate as endothelial and mural cells and contribute to the
developing vasculature in vivo. Our findings indicate that Flk1+ cells can act as
'vascular progenitor cells' to form mature vessels and thus offer potential for
tissue engineering of the vascular system.

DOI: 10.1038/35040568 
PMID: 11081514  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Nature. 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):89-92.

Polarization of the anterior-posterior axis of C. elegans is a
microtubule-directed process.

Wallenfang MR(1), Seydoux G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Johns Hopkins University School 
of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

In Caenorhabditis elegans, polarity along the anterior-posterior (A/P) axis is
established shortly after fertilization and is determined by the sperm, whose
position specifies the posterior end of the embryo'. Although many factors
required for the establishment of A/P polarity have been described, the nature of
the spatial cue provided by the sperm remains unknown. Here we show that a
microtubule-organizing centre is necessary and sufficient to establish several
aspects of A/P polarity. In wildtype embryos, appearance of the first molecular
asymmetries along the A/P axis correlates with and requires nucleation of
microtubules by the sperm-derived centrosomes (sperm asters). In mutant embryos
arrested in meiosis, sperm asters fail to form, and posterior is defined by the
position of the persistent meiotic spindle rather than by the position of the
sperm. Together, our data indicate that the primary spatial cue for A/P polarity 
in C. elegans derives from microtubules emanating from the sperm asters. Our
findings support a parallel between C. elegans zygotes and other cells, such as
Drosophila oocytes, which rely on microtubules to regulate polarity.

DOI: 10.1038/35040562 
PMID: 11081513  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Nature. 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):86-9.

Conservation of the sequence and temporal expression of let-7 heterochronic
regulatory RNA.

Pasquinelli AE(1), Reinhart BJ, Slack F, Martindale MQ, Kuroda MI, Maller B,
Hayward DC, Ball EE, Degnan B, Müller P, Spring J, Srinivasan A, Fishman M,
Finnerty J, Corbo J, Levine M, Leahy P, Davidson E, Ruvkun G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard
Medical School, Boston 02114, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):37-8.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2010 Oct;11(10):676.

Two small RNAs regulate the timing of Caenorhabditis elegans development.
Transition from the first to the second larval stage fates requires the
22-nucleotide lin-4 RNA, and transition from late larval to adult cell fates
requires the 21-nucleotide let-7 RNA. The lin-4 and let-7 RNA genes are not
homologous to each other, but are each complementary to sequences in the 3'
untranslated regions of a set of protein-coding target genes that are normally
negatively regulated by the RNAs. Here we have detected let-7 RNAs of
approximately 21 nucleotides in samples from a wide range of animal species,
including vertebrate, ascidian, hemichordate, mollusc, annelid and arthropod, but
not in RNAs from several cnidarian and poriferan species, Saccharomyces
cerevisiae, Escherichia coli or Arabidopsis. We did not detect lin-4 RNA in these
species. We found that let-7 temporal regulation is also conserved: let-7 RNA
expression is first detected at late larval stages in C. elegans and Drosophila, 
at 48 hours after fertilization in zebrafish, and in adult stages of annelids and
molluscs. The let-7 regulatory RNA may control late temporal transitions during
development across animal phylogeny.

DOI: 10.1038/35040556 
PMID: 11081512  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Nature. 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):82-6.

Evolutionary origins of vertebrate appendicular muscle.

Neyt C(1), Jagla K, Thisse C, Thisse B, Haines L, Currie PD.

Author information: 
(1)Comparative and Developmental Genetics Section, Medical Research Council,
Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, UK.

The evolution of terrestrial tetrapod species heralded a transition in locomotor 
strategies. While most fish species use the undulating contractions of the axial 
musculature to generate propulsive force, tetrapods also rely on the appendicular
muscles of the limbs to generate movement. Despite the fossil record generating
an understanding of the way in which the appendicular skeleton has evolved to
provide the scaffold for tetrapod limb musculature, there is, by contrast, almost
no information as to how this musculature arose. Here we examine fin muscle
formation within two extant classes of fish. We find that in the teleost,
zebrafish, fin muscles arise from migratory mesenchymal precursor cells that
possess molecular and morphogenetic identity with the limb muscle precursors of
tetrapod species. Chondrichthyan dogfish embryos, however, use the primitive
mechanism of direct epithelial somitic extensions to derive the muscles of the
fin. We conclude that the genetic mechanism controlling formation of tetrapod
limb muscles evolved before the Sarcopterygian radiation.

DOI: 10.1038/35040549 
PMID: 11081511  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Nature. 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):79-82.

Elevated CO2 increases productivity and invasive species success in an arid
ecosystem.

Smith SD(1), Huxman TE, Zitzer SF, Charlet TN, Housman DC, Coleman JS,
Fenstermaker LK, Seemann JR, Nowak RS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Nevada, Las Vegas 89154-4004,
USA. ssmith@ccmail.nevada.edu

Arid ecosystems, which occupy about 20% of the earth's terrestrial surface area, 
have been predicted to be one of the most responsive ecosystem types to elevated 
atmospheric CO2 and associated global climate change. Here we show, using
free-air CO2 enrichment (FACE) technology in an intact Mojave Desert ecosystem,
that new shoot production of a dominant perennial shrub is doubled by a 50%
increase in atmospheric CO2 concentration in a high rainfall year. However,
elevated CO2 does not enhance production in a drought year. We also found that
above-ground production and seed rain of an invasive annual grass increases more 
at elevated CO2 than in several species of native annuals. Consequently, elevated
CO2 might enhance the long-term success and dominance of exotic annual grasses in
the region. This shift in species composition in favour of exotic annual grasses,
driven by global change, has the potential to accelerate the fire cycle, reduce
biodiversity and alter ecosystem function in the deserts of western North
America.

DOI: 10.1038/35040544 
PMID: 11081510  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Nature. 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):75-8.

Accelerated hydration of the Earth's deep crust induced by stress perturbations.

Jamtveit B(1), Austrheim H, Malthe-Sørenssen A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology, University of Oslo, Norway.
bjorn.jamtveit@geologi.uio.no

The metamorphic cycle associated with the formation of mountain belts produces a 
lower crust containing little or no free fluid. The introduction of external
fluids to dry and impermeable volumes of the Earth's crust is thus a prerequisite
for the retrogressive metamorphism later observed in such regimes. Such
metamorphism can cause significant changes in the crust's physical properties,
including its density, rheology and elastic properties. On a large scale, the
introduction of fluids requires the presence of high-permeability channels, such 
as faults or fractures, which are the result of external tectonic stresses. But
extensive interaction between externally derived fluids and the fractured rock
requires efficient mass transport away from the initial fractures into the rock
itself, and this transport often occurs over distances much longer than expected 
from grain-boundary diffusion. Here we present both field observations and a
simple network model that demonstrate how the transport of fluids into initially 
dry rock can be accelerated by perturbations in the local stress field caused by 
reactions with fluids. We also show that the morphology of reaction fronts
separating 'dry' from 'wet' rocks depends on the anisotropy of the external
stress field.

DOI: 10.1038/35040537 
PMID: 11081509 


151. Nature. 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):72-5.

Early onset and tropical forcing of 100,000-year Pleistocene glacial cycles.

Rutherford S(1), D'Hondt S.

Author information: 
(1)University of Rhode Island, Graduate School of Oceanography, Narragansett
02882, USA. srutherford@gso.uri.edu

Between 1.5 and 0.6 Myr ago, the period of the Earth's glacial cycles changed
from 41 kyr, the period of the Earth's obliquity cycles, to 100 kyr, the period
of the Earth's orbital eccentricity, which has a much smaller effect on global
insolation. The timing of this transition and its causes pose one of the most
perplexing problems in palaeoclimate research. Here we use complex demodulation
to examine the phase evolution of precession and semiprecession cycles--the
latter of which are phase-coupled to both precession and eccentricity--in the
tropical and extratropical Atlantic Ocean. We find that about 1.5 Myr ago,
tropical semiprecession cycles (with periods of about 11.5 kyr) started to
propagate to higher latitudes, coincident with a growing amplitude envelope of
the 100-kyr cycles. Evidence from numerical models suggests that cycles of about 
10 kyr in length may be required to explain the high amplitude of the 100-kyr
cycles. Combining our results with consideration of a modern analogue, we
conclude that increased heat flow across the equator or from the tropics to
higher latitudes around 1.5 Myr ago strengthened the semiprecession cycle in the 
Northern Hemisphere, and triggered the transition to sustained 100-kyr glacial
cycles.

DOI: 10.1038/35040533 
PMID: 11081508 


152. Nature. 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):69-72.

Large disparity between gallium and antimony self-diffusion in gallium
antimonide.

Bracht H(1), Nicols SP, Walukiewicz W, Silveira JP, Briones F, Haller EE.

Author information: 
(1)University of California and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, 
California 94720, USA. bracht@uni-muenster.de

The most fundamental mass transport process in solids is self-diffusion. The
motion of host-lattice ('self-') atoms in solids is mediated by point defects
such as vacancies or interstitial atoms, whose formation and migration enthalpies
determine the kinetics of this thermally activated process. Self-diffusion
studies also contribute to the understanding of the diffusion of impurities, and 
a quantitative understanding of self- and foreign-atom diffusion in
semiconductors is central to the development of advanced electronic devices. In
the past few years, self-diffusion studies have been performed successfully with 
isotopically controlled semiconductor heterostructures of germanium, silicon,
gallium arsenide and gallium phosphide. Self-diffusion studies with isotopically 
controlled GaAs and GaP have been restricted to Ga self-diffusion, as only Ga has
two stable isotopes, 69Ga and 71Ga. Here we report self-diffusion studies with an
isotopically controlled multilayer structure of crystalline GaSb. Two stable
isotopes exist for both Ga and Sb, allowing the simultaneous study of diffusion
on both sublattices. Our experiments show that near the melting temperature, Ga
diffuses more rapidly than Sb by over three orders of magnitude. This
surprisingly large difference in atomic mobility requires a physical explanation 
going beyond standard diffusion models. Combining our data for Ga and Sb
diffusion with related results for foreign-atom diffusion in GaSb (refs 8, 9), we
conclude that the unusually slow Sb diffusion in GaSb is a consequence of
reactions between defects on the Ga and Sb sublattices, which suppress the
defects that are required for Sb diffusion.

DOI: 10.1038/35040526 
PMID: 11081507 


153. Nature. 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):67-9.

A nanometre-scale electronic switch consisting of a metal cluster and
redox-addressable groups.

Gittins DI(1), Bethell D, Schiffrin DJ, Nichols RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Nanoscale Science, Department of Chemistry, University of
Liverpool, UK.

So-called bottom-up fabrication methods aim to assemble and integrate molecular
components exhibiting specific functions into electronic devices that are orders 
of magnitude smaller than can be fabricated by lithographic techniques.
Fundamental to the success of the bottom-up approach is the ability to control
electron transport across molecular components. Organic molecules containing
redox centres-chemical species whose oxidation number, and hence electronic
structure, can be changed reversibly-support resonant tunnelling and display
promising functional behaviour when sandwiched as molecular layers between
electrical contacts, but their integration into more complex assemblies remains
challenging. For this reason, functionalized metal nanoparticles have attracted
much interest: they exhibit single-electron characteristics (such as quantized
capacitance charging) and can be organized through simple self-assembly methods
into well ordered structures, with the nanoparticles at controlled locations.
Here we report scanning tunnelling microscopy measurements showing that organic
molecules containing redox centres can be used to attach metal nanoparticles to
electrode surfaces and so control the electron transport between them. Our system
consists of gold nanoclusters a few nanometres across and functionalized with
polymethylene chains that carry a central, reversibly reducible bipyridinium
moiety. We expect that the ability to electronically contact metal nanoparticles 
via redox-active molecules, and to alter profoundly their tunnelling properties
by charge injection into these molecules, can form the basis for a range of
nanoscale electronic switches.

DOI: 10.1038/35040518 
PMID: 11081506 


154. Nature. 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):64-7.

A photorefractive organically modified silica glass with high optical gain.

Cheben P(1), del Monte F, Worsfold DJ, Carlsson DJ, Grover CP, Mackenzie JD.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for National Measurement Standards, National Research Council,
Ottawa, Canada. pavel.cheben@nrc.ca

Photorefractive materials exhibit a spatial modulation of the refractive index
due to redistribution of photogenerated charges in an optically nonlinear medium.
As such, they have the ability to manipulate light and are potentially important 
for optical applications including image processing, optical storage,
programmable optical interconnects and simulation of neural networks.
Photorefractive materials are generally crystals, polymers and glasses with
electro-optic or birefringent properties and noncentrosymmetric structure. Here
we report the photorefractive effect in both non-centrosymmetric and
centrosymmetric azo-dye-doped silica glasses, in which refractive index gratings 
that are spatially phase-shifted with respect to the incident light intensity
pattern are observed. The effect results from a nonlocal response of the material
to optical illumination, and enables the transfer of energy between two
interfering light beams (asymmetric two-beam coupling). Although the writing time
for the present grating is relatively slow, we have achieved a two-beam coupling 
optical gain of 188 cm(-1) in the centrosymmetric glasses, and a gain of 444
cm(-1) in the non-centrosymmetric structures. The latter are fabricated using a
corona discharge process to induce a permanent arrangement of azo-dye
chromophores.

DOI: 10.1038/35040513 
PMID: 11081505 


155. Nature. 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):57-63.

Interleukin 21 and its receptor are involved in NK cell expansion and regulation 
of lymphocyte function.

Parrish-Novak J(1), Dillon SR, Nelson A, Hammond A, Sprecher C, Gross JA,
Johnston J, Madden K, Xu W, West J, Schrader S, Burkhead S, Heipel M, Brandt C,
Kuijper JL, Kramer J, Conklin D, Presnell SR, Berry J, Shiota F, Bort S, Hambly
K, Mudri S, Clegg C, Moore M, Grant FJ, Lofton-Day C, Gilbert T, Rayond F, Ching 
A, Yao L, Smith D, Webster P, Whitmore T, Maurer M, Kaushansky K, Holly RD,
Foster D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Functional Cloning, ZymoGenetics, Inc., Seattle, Washington
98102, USA.

Cytokines are important in the regulation of haematopoiesis and immune responses,
and can influence lymphocyte development. Here we have identified a class I
cytokine receptor that is selectively expressed in lymphoid tissues and is
capable of signal transduction. The full-length receptor was expressed in BaF3
cells, which created a functional assay for ligand detection and cloning.
Conditioned media from activated human CD3+ T cells supported proliferation of
the assay cell line. We constructed a complementary DNA expression library from
activated human CD3+ T cells, and identified a cytokine with a four-helix-bundle 
structure using functional cloning. This cytokine is most closely related to IL2 
and IL15, and has been designated IL21 with the receptor designated IL21 R. In
vitro assays suggest that IL21 has a role in the proliferation and maturation of 
natural killer (NK) cell populations from bone marrow, in the proliferation of
mature B-cell populations co-stimulated with anti-CD40, and in the proliferation 
of T cells co-stimulated with anti-CD3.

DOI: 10.1038/35040504 
PMID: 11081504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):1029-34.

Crystal structure of fibroblast growth factor receptor ectodomain bound to ligand
and heparin.

Pellegrini L(1), Burke DF, von Delft F, Mulloy B, Blundell TL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Cambridge, UK.
luca@cryst.bioc.cam.ac.uk

Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) are a large family of structurally related
proteins with a wide range of physiological and pathological activities. Signal
transduction requires association of FGF with its receptor tyrosine kinase (FGFR)
and heparan sulphate proteoglycan in a specific complex on the cell surface.
Direct involvement of the heparan sulphate glycosaminoglycan polysaccharide in
the molecular association between FGF and its receptor is essential for
biological activity. Although crystal structures of binary complexes of
FGF-heparin and FGF-FGFR have been described, the molecular architecture of the
FGF signalling complex has not been elucidated. Here we report the crystal
structure of the FGFR2 ectodomain in a dimeric form that is induced by
simultaneous binding to FGF1 and a heparin decasaccharide. The complex is
assembled around a central heparin molecule linking two FGF1 ligands into a dimer
that bridges between two receptor chains. The asymmetric heparin binding involves
contacts with both FGF1 molecules but only one receptor chain. The structure of
the FGF1-FGFR2-heparin ternary complex provides a structural basis for the
essential role of heparan sulphate in FGF signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/35039551 
PMID: 11069186  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):1026-9.

Steps and fluctuations of Listeria monocytogenes during actin-based motility.

Kuo SC(1), McGrath JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Maryland 21205, USA. skuo@bme.jhu.edu

The actin-based motility of the bacterium, Listeria monocytogenes, is a model
system for understanding motile cell functions involving actin polymerization.
Although the biochemical and genetic aspects of Listeria motility have been
intensely studied, biophysical data are sparse. Here we have used high-resolution
laser tracking to follow the trailing ends of Listeria moving in the lamellae of 
COS7 cells. We found that pauses during motility occur frequently and that
episodes of step-like motion often show pauses spaced at about 5.4 nm, which
corresponds to the spatial periodicity of F-actin. We occasionally observed
smaller steps (<3 nm), as well as periods of motion with no obvious pauses.
Clearly, bacteria do not sense cytoplasmic viscoelasticity because they fluctuate
20 times less than adjacent lipid droplets. Instead, bacteria bind their own
actin 'tails, and the anchoring proteins can 'step' along growing filaments
within the actin tail. Because positional fluctuations are unusually small, the
forces of association and propulsion must be very strong. Our data disprove the
brownian ratchet models and limit alternative models, such as the 'elastic'
brownian ratchet or the 'molecular' ratchet.

DOI: 10.1038/35039544 
PMID: 11069185  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):1022-6.

Matrix proteins can generate the higher order architecture of the Golgi
apparatus.

Seemann J(1), Jokitalo E, Pypaert M, Warren G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520-8002, USA.

The Golgi apparatus in animal cells comprises a reticulum of linked stacks in the
pericentriolar and often in the juxtanuclear regions of the cell. The unique
architecture of this organelle is thought to depend on the cytoskeleton and
cytoplasmic matrix proteins--the best characterized being the golgin family of
fibrous, coiled-coil proteins and the GRASP family of stacking proteins. Here we 
show that these matrix proteins can be separated from oligosaccharide-modifying
enzymes in the Golgi stack without affecting their ability to form a ribbon-like 
reticulum in the correct location near to the nucleus. Our data suggest that the 
Golgi is a structural scaffold that can exist independently of, but is normally
populated by, the enzyme-containing membranes that modify transiting cargo. This 
new concept of the Golgi further indicates that the Golgi may be an autonomous
organelle rather than one that is in simple dynamic equilibrium with the
endoplasmic reticulum.

DOI: 10.1038/35039538 
PMID: 11069184  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):1018-22.

Frequent ectopic recombination of virulence factor genes in telomeric chromosome 
clusters of P. falciparum.

Freitas-Junior LH(1), Bottius E, Pirrit LA, Deitsch KW, Scheidig C, Guinet F,
Nehrbass U, Wellems TE, Scherf A.

Author information: 
(1)Unité de Biologie des Interactions Hote-Parasite, CNRS URA 1960, Paris,
France.

Persistent and recurrent infections by Plasmodium falciparum malaria parasites
result from the ability of the parasite to undergo antigenic variation and evade 
host immune attack. P. falciparum parasites generate high levels of variability
in gene families that comprise virulence determinants of cytoadherence and
antigenic variation, such as the var genes. These genes encode the major variable
parasite protein (PfEMP-1), and are expressed in a mutually exclusive manner at
the surface of the erythrocyte infected by P. falciparum. Here we identify a
mechanism by which var gene sequences undergo recombination at frequencies much
higher than those expected from homologous crossover events alone. These
recombination events occur between subtelomeric regions of heterologous
chromosomes, which associate in clusters near the nuclear periphery in asexual
blood-stage parasites or in bouquet-like configurations near one pole of the
elongated nuclei in sexual parasite forms. We propose that the alignment of var
genes in heterologous chromosomes facilitates gene conversion and promotes the
diversity of antigenic and adhesive phenotypes. The association of virulence
factors with a specific nuclear subcompartment may also have implications for
variation during mitotic recombination in asexual blood stages.

DOI: 10.1038/35039531 
PMID: 11069183  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):1015-7.

Warm-coding deficits and aberrant inflammatory pain in mice lacking P2X3
receptors.

Souslova V(1), Cesare P, Ding Y, Akopian AN, Stanfa L, Suzuki R, Carpenter K,
Dickenson A, Boyce S, Hill R, Nebenuis-Oosthuizen D, Smith AJ, Kidd EJ, Wood JN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University College London, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):951-2.

ATP activates damage-sensing neurons (nociceptors) and can evoke a sensation of
pain. The ATP receptor P2X3 is selectively expressed by nociceptors and is one of
seven ATP-gated, cation-selective ion channels. Here we demonstrate that ablation
of the P2X3 gene results in the loss of rapidly desensitizing ATP-gated cation
currents in dorsal root ganglion neurons, and that the responses of nodose
ganglion neurons to ATP show altered kinetics and pharmacology resulting from the
loss of expression of P2X(2/3) heteromultimers. Null mutants have normal
sensorimotor function. Behavioural responses to noxious mechanical and thermal
stimuli are also normal, although formalin-induced pain behaviour is reduced. In 
contrast, deletion of the P2X3 receptor causes enhanced thermal hyperalgesia in
chronic inflammation. Notably, although dorsal-horn neuronal responses to
mechanical and noxious heat application are normal, P2X3-null mice are unable to 
code the intensity of non-noxious 'warming' stimuli.

DOI: 10.1038/35039526 
PMID: 11069182  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):1011-5.

Urinary bladder hyporeflexia and reduced pain-related behaviour in P2X3-deficient
mice.

Cockayne DA(1), Hamilton SG, Zhu QM, Dunn PM, Zhong Y, Novakovic S, Malmberg AB, 
Cain G, Berson A, Kassotakis L, Hedley L, Lachnit WG, Burnstock G, McMahon SB,
Ford AP.

Author information: 
(1)The Neurobiology Unit, Roche Bioscience, Palo Alto, California 94304, USA.
debra.cockayne@roche.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):951-2.

Extracellular ATP is implicated in numerous sensory processes ranging from the
response to pain to the regulation of motility in visceral organs. The ATP
receptor P2X3 is selectively expressed on small diameter sensory neurons,
supporting this hypothesis. Here we show that mice deficient in P2X3 lose the
rapidly desensitizing ATP-induced currents in dorsal root ganglion neurons. P2X3 
deficiency also causes a reduction in the sustained ATP-induced currents in
nodose ganglion neurons. P2X3-null mice have reduced pain-related behaviour in
response to injection of ATP and formalin. Significantly, P2X3-null mice exhibit 
a marked urinary bladder hyporeflexia, characterized by decreased voiding
frequency and increased bladder capacity, but normal bladder pressures.
Immunohistochemical studies localize P2X3 to nerve fibres innervating the urinary
bladder of wild-type mice, and show that loss of P2X3 does not alter sensory
neuron innervation density. Thus, P2X3 is critical for peripheral pain responses 
and afferent pathways controlling urinary bladder volume reflexes. Antagonists to
P2X3 may therefore have therapeutic potential in the treatment of disorders of
urine storage and voiding such as overactive bladder.

DOI: 10.1038/35039519 
PMID: 11069181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):1007-11.

The mammalian sodium channel BNC1 is required for normal touch sensation.

Price MP(1), Lewin GR, McIlwrath SL, Cheng C, Xie J, Heppenstall PA, Stucky CL,
Mannsfeldt AG, Brennan TJ, Drummond HA, Qiao J, Benson CJ, Tarr DE, Hrstka RF,
Yang B, Williamson RA, Welsh MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Internal Medicine, University
of Iowa College of Medicine, Iowa City 52242, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature 2002 Jul 18;418(6895):352.

Of the vertebrate senses, touch is the least understood at the molecular level
The ion channels that form the core of the mechanosensory complex and confer
touch sensitivity remain unknown. However, the similarity of the brain sodium
channel 1 (BNC1) to nematode proteins involved in mechanotransduction indicated
that it might be a part of such a mechanosensor. Here we show that disrupting the
mouse BNC1 gene markedly reduces the sensitivity of a specific component of
mechanosensation: low-threshold rapidly adapting mechanoreceptors. In rodent
hairy skin these mechanoreceptors are excited by hair movement. Consistent with
this function, we found BNC1 in the lanceolate nerve endings that lie adjacent to
and surround the hair follicle. Although BNC1 has been proposed to have a role in
pH sensing, the acid-evoked current in cultured sensory neurons and the response 
of acid-stimulated nociceptors were normal in BNC1 null mice. These data identify
the BNC1 channel as essential for the normal detection of light touch and
indicate that BNC1 may be a central component of a mechanosensory complex.

DOI: 10.1038/35039512 
PMID: 11069180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):1003-7.

An area for vergence eye movement in primate frontal cortex.

Gamlin PD(1), Yoon K.

Author information: 
(1)Vision Science Research Center, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 35294,
USA. pgamlin@uab.edu

To view objects at different distances, humans rely on vergence eye movements to 
appropriately converge or diverge the eyes and on ocular accommodation to focus
the object. Despite the importance of these coordinated eye movements (the 'near 
response') very little is known about the role of the cerebral cortex in their
control. As near-response neurons exist within the nucleus reticularis tegmenti
pontis, which receives input from the frontal eye field region of frontal cortex,
and this cortical region is known to be involved in saccadic and smooth-pursuit
eye movements, we propose that a nearby region might play a role in vergence and 
ocular accommodation. Here we provide evidence from rhesus monkeys that a region 
of frontal cortex located immediately anterior to the saccade-related frontal eye
field region is involved in vergence and ocular accommodation, and in the
sensorimotor transformations required for these eye movements. We conclude that
the macaque frontal cortex is involved in the control of all voluntary eye
movements, and suggest that the definition of the frontal eye fields should be
expanded to include this region.

DOI: 10.1038/35039506 
PMID: 11069179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):1000-3.

Disruptive sexual selection for plumage coloration in a passerine bird.

Greene E(1), Lyon BE, Muehter VR, Ratcliffe L, Oliver SJ, Boag PT.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biological Sciences, The University of Montana, Missoula 59812,
USA. egreene@selway.umt.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):955-6.

The theory of sexual selection was developed to explain the evolution of highly
exaggerated sexual ornaments. Now supported by vast empirical evidence, sexual
selection is generally considered to favour individuals with the most extreme
trait expression. Here we describe disruptive selection on a sexual ornament,
plumage coloration, in yearling male lazuli buntings (Passerina amoena). In
habitats with limited good-quality nesting cover, the dullest and the brightest
yearlings were more successful in obtaining high-quality territories, pairing
with females and siring offspring, than yearlings with intermediate plumage. This
pattern reflects the way that territorial adult males vary levels of aggression
to influence the structure of their social neighbourhood. Adult males showed less
aggression towards dull yearlings than intermediate and bright ones, permitting
the dull yearlings to settle on good territories nearby. Fitness comparisons
based on paternity analyses showed that both the adults and dull yearlings
benefited genetically from this arrangement, revealing a rare example of sexually
selected male-male cooperation.

DOI: 10.1038/35039500 
PMID: 11069178  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):996-9.

Unicellular C4 photosynthesis in a marine diatom.

Reinfelder JR(1), Kraepiel AM, Morel FM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Sciences, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, New
Jersey 08901, USA. reinfelder@envsci.rutgers.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):959-60.

Nearly 50 years ago, inorganic carbon was shown to be fixed in microalgae as the 
C3 compound phosphoglyceric acid. The enzyme responsible for C3 carbon fixation, 
ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (Rubisco), however, requires inorganic
carbon in the form of CO2 (ref. 2), and Rubisco enzymes from diatoms have
half-saturation constants for CO2 of 30-60 microM (ref. 3). As a result, diatoms 
growing in seawater that contains about 10 microM CO2 may be CO2 limited. Kinetic
and growth studies have shown that diatoms can avoid CO2 limitation, but the
biochemistry of the underlying mechanisms remains unknown. Here we present
evidence that C4 photosynthesis supports carbon assimilation in the marine diatom
Thalassiosira weissflogii, thus providing a biochemical explanation for
CO2-insensitive photosynthesis in marine diatoms. If C4 photosynthesis is common 
among marine diatoms, it may account for a significant portion of carbon fixation
and export in the ocean, and would explain the greater enrichment of 13C in
diatoms compared with other classes of phytoplankton. Unicellular C4 carbon
assimilation may have predated the appearance of multicellular C4 plants.

DOI: 10.1038/35039612 
PMID: 11069177  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):993-6.

Widespread uplift and 'trapdoor' faulting on Galápagos volcanoes observed with
radar interferometry.

Amelung F(1), Jónsson S, Zebker H, Segall P.

Author information: 
(1)Stanford University, Department of Geophysics, California 94305-2215, USA.

Volcanic uplift, caused by the accumulation of magma in subsurface reservoirs, is
a common precursor to eruptions. But, for some volcanoes, uplift of metres or
more has not yet led to an eruption. Here we present displacement maps of
volcanoes in the Galápagos Islands, constructed using satellite radar
interferometry, that might help explain this dichotomy. We show that all but one 
of the seven volcanoes on the islands of Isabela and Fernandina deformed during
1992-99. Cerro Azul and Fernandina erupted during the observation period and show
evidence of inflation, co-eruptive deflation and shallow dyke intrusion. In
contrast, the largest volcano, Sierra Negra, has not erupted, yet exhibits
spatially and temporally variable deformation, with a maximum uplift of 2.7 m
between 1992 and 1999, which can be modelled by a shallow inflating sill.
Inflation during 1997-98, however, was accompanied by 'trapdoor' faulting on a
steeply dipping fracture system within the caldera. Repeated trapdoor faulting
over geological time has formed an arcuate intra-caldera ridge within Sierra
Negra and may have acted to relax stresses above the magma chamber, inhibiting
summit eruptions. Similar processes may help explain large uplift unaccompanied
by eruptive activity at other volcanoes.

DOI: 10.1038/35039604 
PMID: 11069176 


167. Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):989-93.

Influence of mean climate change on climate variability from a 155-year tropical 
Pacific coral record.

Urban FE(1), Cole JE, Overpeck JT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geological Sciences/INSTAAR, University of Colorado, Boulder
80309, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):956-7, 959.

Today, the El Niño/Southern Oscillation (ENSO) system is the primary driver of
interannual variability in global climate, but its long-term behaviour is poorly 
understood. Instrumental observations reveal a shift in 1976 towards warmer and
wetter conditions in the tropical Pacific, with widespread climatic and
ecological consequences. This shift, unique over the past century, has prompted
debate over the influence of increasing atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse 
gases on ENSO variability. Here we present a 155-year ENSO reconstruction from a 
central tropical Pacific coral that provides new evidence for long-term changes
in the regional mean climate and its variability. A gradual transition in the
early twentieth century and the abrupt change in 1976, both towards warmer and
wetter conditions, co-occur with changes in variability. In the mid-late
nineteenth century, cooler and drier background conditions coincided with
prominent decadal variability; in the early twentieth century, shorter-period
(approximately 2.9 years) variability intensified. After 1920, variability
weakens and becomes focused at interannual timescales; with the shift in 1976,
variability with a period of about 4 years becomes prominent. Our results suggest
that variability in the tropical Pacific is linked to the region's mean climate, 
and that changes in both have occurred during periods of natural as well as
anthropogenic climate forcing.

DOI: 10.1038/35039597 
PMID: 11069175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):986-9.

Geometry-dominated fluid adsorption on sculpted solid substrates.

Rascón C(1), Parry AO.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mathematics, Imperial College, London, UK.

The shape and chemical composition of solid surfaces can be controlled at a
mesoscopic scale. Exposing such structured substrates to a gas that is close to
coexistence with its liquid phase can produce quite distinct adsorption
characteristics compared to those of planar systems, which may be important for
technologies such as super-repellent surfaces or micro-fluidics. Recent studies
have concentrated on the adsorption of liquids on rough and heterogeneous
substrates, and the characterization of nanoscopic liquid films. But the
fundamental effect of geometry on the adsorption of a fluid from the gas phase
has hardly been addressed. Here we present a simple theoretical model which shows
that varying the shape of the substrate can exert a profound influence on the
adsorption isotherms of liquids. The model smoothly connects wetting and
capillary condensation through a number of examples of fluid interfacial
phenomena, and opens the possibility of tailoring the adsorption properties of
solid substrates by sculpting their surface shape.

DOI: 10.1038/35039590 
PMID: 11069174 


169. Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):983-6.

Three-dimensional control of light in a two-dimensional photonic crystal slab.

Chow E(1), Lin SY, Johnson SG, Villeneuve PR, Joannopoulos JD, Wendt JR, Vawter
GA, Zubrzycki W, Hou H, Alleman A.

Author information: 
(1)Sandia National Laboratories, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87185, USA.

Optoelectronic devices are increasingly important in communication and
information technology. To achieve the necessary manipulation of light (which
carries information in optoelectronic devices), considerable efforts are directed
at the development of photonic crystals--periodic dielectric materials that have 
so-called photonic bandgaps, which prohibit the propagation of photons having
energies within the bandgap region. Straightforward application of the bandgap
concept is generally thought to require three-dimensional (3D) photonic crystals;
their two-dimensional (2D) counterparts confine light in the crystal plane, but
not in the perpendicular z direction, which inevitably leads to diffraction
losses. Nonetheless, 2D photonic crystals still attract interest because they are
potentially more amenable to fabrication by existing techniques and diffraction
losses need not seriously impair utility. Here we report the fabrication of a
waveguide-coupled photonic crystal slab (essentially a free-standing 2D photonic 
crystal) with a strong 2D bandgap at wavelengths of about 1.5 microm, yet which
is capable of fully controlling light in all three dimensions. These features
confirm theoretical calculations on the possibility of achieving 3D light control
using 2D bandgaps, with index guiding providing control in the third dimension,
and raise the prospect of being able to realize unusual photonic-crystal devices,
such as thresholdless lasers.

DOI: 10.1038/35039583 
PMID: 11069173 


170. Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):981-3.

n-type colloidal semiconductor nanocrystals.

Shim M(1), Guyot-Sionnest P.

Author information: 
(1)James Franck Institute, University of Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.
mshim@uchicago.edu

Colloidal semiconductor nanocrystals combine the physical and chemical properties
of molecules with the optoelectronic properties of semiconductors. Their colour
is highly controllable, a direct consequence of quantum confinement on the
electronic states. Such nanocrystals are a form of 'artificial atoms' (ref. 4)
that may find applications in optoelectronic systems such as light-emitting
diodes and photovoltaic cells, or as components of future nanoelectronic devices.
The ability to control the electron occupation (especially in n-type or p-type
nanocrystals) is important for tailoring the electrical and optical properties,
and should lead to a wider range of practical devices. But conventional doping by
introducing impurity atoms has been unsuccessful so far: impurities tend to be
expelled from the small crystalline cores (as observed for magnetic impurities), 
and thermal ionization of the impurities (which provides free carriers) is
hindered by strong confinement. Here we report the fabrication of n-type
nanocrystals using an electron transfer approach commonly employed in the field
of conducting organic polymers. We find that semiconductor nanocrystals prepared 
as colloids can be made n-type, with electrons in quantum confined states.

DOI: 10.1038/35039577 
PMID: 11069172 


171. Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):979-81.

Extremely red Kuiper-belt objects in near-circular orbits beyond 40 AU.

Tegler SC(1), Romanishin W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics & Astronomy, Northern Arizona University, Flagstaff
86011, USA. tegler@proto.phy.nau.edu

Kuiper-belt objects (KBOs) are an ancient reservoir of comets beyond Neptune's
orbit. Some of these objects were recently found to have the reddest optical
colours in the Solar System, but the number of objects for which accurate colours
were available was too small for any correlation to be discerned between colour
and physical or dynamical properties, which might shed light on the origin of
these objects. Here we report that all nine of the KBOs in our survey on
near-circular (low-eccentricity) orbits with perihelion distances larger than 40 
AU have extremely red surfaces, thereby connecting an observable property with a 
dynamical class. Of the objects with orbital eccentricities greater than 0.1,
about half are also very red, while the rest have colours similar to the Sun,
meaning that reflected sunlight is not strongly modified by the objects' surface 
properties. In addition, of the 13 'classical' KBOs (those with semimajor axis a 
approximately 45 AU and eccentricity e < 0.15), the ten that are very red are in 
orbits with small angles of inclination to the ecliptic, whereas the three with
solar colours are all in high-inclination orbits. We suggest that these three
'grey' classical KBOs may be part of a dynamical group that is separate from the 
'red' classical KBOs.

DOI: 10.1038/35039572 
PMID: 11069171 


172. Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):971-7.

Structural basis of glutamate recognition by a dimeric metabotropic glutamate
receptor.

Kunishima N(1), Shimada Y, Tsuji Y, Sato T, Yamamoto M, Kumasaka T, Nakanishi S, 
Jingami H, Morikawa K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Structural Biology, Biomolecular Engineering Research Institute,
Suita, Osaka, Japan.

The metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are key receptors in the modulation
of excitatory synaptic transmission in the central nervous system. Here we have
determined three different crystal structures of the extracellular ligand-binding
region of mGluR1--in a complex with glutamate and in two unliganded forms. They
all showed disulphide-linked homodimers, whose 'active' and 'resting'
conformations are modulated through the dimeric interface by a packed
alpha-helical structure. The bi-lobed protomer architectures flexibly change
their domain arrangements to form an 'open' or 'closed' conformation. The
structures imply that glutamate binding stabilizes both the 'active' dimer and
the 'closed' protomer in dynamic equilibrium. Movements of the four domains in
the dimer are likely to affect the separation of the transmembrane and
intracellular regions, and thereby activate the receptor. This scheme in the
initial receptor activation could be applied generally to G-protein-coupled
neurotransmitter receptors that possess extracellular ligand-binding sites.

DOI: 10.1038/35039564 
PMID: 11069170  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Nature. 2000 Oct 26;407(6807):963-70.

Regenerating the damaged central nervous system.

Horner PJ(1), Gage FH.

Author information: 
(1)The Laboratory of Genetics, The Salk Institute, La Jolla, California 92037,
USA.

It is self-evident that the adult mammalian brain and spinal cord do not
regenerate after injury, but recent discoveries have forced a reconsideration of 
this accepted principle. Advances in our understanding of how the brain develops 
have provided a rough blueprint for how we may bring about regeneration in the
damaged brain. Studies in developmental neurobiology, intracellular signalling
and neuroimmunology are bringing the regeneration field closer to success.
Notwithstanding these advances, clear and indisputable evidence for adult
functional regeneration remains to be shown.

DOI: 10.1038/35039559 
PMID: 11069169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):923-6.

Structure of a serpin-protease complex shows inhibition by deformation.

Huntington JA(1), Read RJ, Carrell RW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Haematology, University of Cambridge, Wellcome Trust Centre for 
Molecular Mechanisms in Disease, Cambridge Institute for Medical Research, UK.
rwc1000@cam.ac.uk

The serpins have evolved to be the predominant family of serine-protease
inhibitors in man. Their unique mechanism of inhibition involves a profound
change in conformation, although the nature and significance of this change has
been controversial. Here we report the crystallographic structure of a typical
serpin-protease complex and show the mechanism of inhibition. The conformational 
change is initiated by reaction of the active serine of the protease with the
reactive centre of the serpin. This cleaves the reactive centre, which then moves
71 A to the opposite pole of the serpin, taking the tethered protease with it.
The tight linkage of the two molecules and resulting overlap of their structures 
does not affect the hyperstable serpin, but causes a surprising 37% loss of
structure in the protease. This is induced by the plucking of the serine from its
active site, together with breakage of interactions formed during zymogen
activation. The disruption of the catalytic site prevents the release of the
protease from the complex, and the structural disorder allows its proteolytic
destruction. It is this ability of the conformational mechanism to crush as well 
as inhibit proteases that provides the serpins with their selective advantage.

DOI: 10.1038/35038119 
PMID: 11057674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):920-3.

The nuclear receptor CAR mediates specific xenobiotic induction of drug
metabolism.

Wei P(1), Zhang J, Egan-Hafley M, Liang S, Moore DD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):852-3.

Organisms encounter a wide range of foreign compounds--or 'xenobiotics'--with
potentially harmful consequences. The cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes metabolize
xenobiotics and thus are a primary defence against these compounds. Increased
expression of specific CYP genes in response to particular xenobiotics is a
central component of this defence, although such induction can also increase
production of toxic metabolites. Here we show that the nuclear receptor CAR
mediates the response evoked by a class of xenobiotics known as the
'phenobarbital-like inducers'. The strong activation of Cyp2b10 gene expression
by phenobarbital, or by the more potent TCPOBOP, is absent in mice lacking the
CAR gene. These animals also show decreased metabolism of the classic CYP
substrate zoxazolamine and a complete loss of the liver hypertrophic and
hyperplastic responses to these inducers. Cocaine causes acute hepatotoxicity in 
wild-type mice previously exposed to phenobarbital-like inducers and this
toxicity is also absent in the CAR-deficient animals. Thus, loss of CAR function 
alters sensitivity to toxins, increasing or decreasing it depending on the
compound. Modulation of CAR activity in humans may significantly affect
metabolism of drugs and other xenobiotics.

DOI: 10.1038/35038112 
PMID: 11057673  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):916-20.

Development of Th1-type immune responses requires the type I cytokine receptor
TCCR.

Chen Q(1), Ghilardi N, Wang H, Baker T, Xie MH, Gurney A, Grewal IS, de Sauvage
FJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Oncology, Genentech, Inc, South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA.

On antigen challenge, T-helper cells differentiate into two functionally distinct
subsets, Th1 and Th2, characterized by the different effector cytokines that they
secrete. Th1 cells produce interleukin (IL)-2, interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and
lymphotoxin-beta, which mediate pro-inflammatory functions critical for the
development of cell-mediated immune responses, whereas Th2 cells secrete
cytokines such as IL-4, IL-5 and IL-10 that enhance humoral immunity. This
process of T-helper cell differentiation is tightly regulated by cytokines. Here 
we report a new member of the type I cytokine receptor family, designated T-cell 
cytokine receptor (TCCR). When challenged in vivo with protein antigen,
TCCR-deficient mice had impaired Th1 response as measured by IFN-gamma
production. TCCR-deficient mice also had increased susceptibility to infection
with an intracellular pathogen, Listeria monocytogenes. In addition, levels of
antigen-specific immunoglobulin-gamma2a, which are dependent on Th1 cells, were
markedly reduced in these mice. Our results demonstrate the existence of a new
cytokine receptor involved in regulating the adaptive immune response and
critical to the generation of a Th1 response.

DOI: 10.1038/35038103 
PMID: 11057672  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):913-6.

Repressor activity of Headless/Tcf3 is essential for vertebrate head formation.

Kim CH(1), Oda T, Itoh M, Jiang D, Artinger KB, Chandrasekharappa SC, Driever W, 
Chitnis AB.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Genetics, NICHD, NHGRI, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892,
USA.

The vertebrate organizer can induce a complete body axis when transplanted to the
ventral side of a host embryo by virtue of its distinct head and trunk inducing
properties. Wingless/Wnt antagonists secreted by the organizer have been
identified as head inducers. Their ectopic expression can promote head formation,
whereas ectopic activation of Wnt signalling during early gastrulation blocks
head formation. These observations suggest that the ability of head inducers to
inhibit Wnt signalling during formation of anterior structures is what
distinguishes them from trunk inducers that permit the operation of
posteriorizing Wnt signals. Here we describe the zebrafish headless (hdl) mutant 
and show that its severe head defects are due to a mutation in T-cell factor-3
(Tcf3), a member of the Tcf/Lef family. Loss of Tcf3 function in the hdl mutant
reveals that hdl represses Wnt target genes. We provide genetic evidence that a
component of the Wnt signalling pathway is essential in vertebrate head formation
and patterning.

DOI: 10.1038/35038097 
PMCID: PMC4018833
PMID: 11057671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):908-13.

Ghrelin induces adiposity in rodents.

Tschöp M(1), Smiley DL, Heiman ML.

Author information: 
(1)Endocrine Research and BioResearch Technologies & Proteins, Lilly Research
Laboratories, A Division of Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana 46285,
USA. Matthias_Tschoep@Lilly.com

The discovery of the peptide hormone ghrelin, an endogenous ligand for the growth
hormone secretagogue (GHS) receptor, yielded the surprising result that the
principal site of ghrelin synthesis is the stomach and not the hypothalamus.
Although ghrelin is likely to regulate pituitary growth hormone (GH) secretion
along with GH-releasing hormone and somatostatin, GHS receptors have also been
identified on hypothalamic neurons and in the brainstem. Apart from potential
paracrine effects, ghrelin may thus offer an endocrine link between stomach,
hypothalamus and pituitary, suggesting an involvement in regulation of energy
balance. Here we show that peripheral daily administration of ghrelin caused
weight gain by reducing fat utilization in mice and rats. Intracerebroventricular
administration of ghrelin generated a dose-dependent increase in food intake and 
body weight. Rat serum ghrelin concentrations were increased by fasting and were 
reduced by re-feeding or oral glucose administration, but not by water ingestion.
We propose that ghrelin, in addition to its role in regulating GH secretion,
signals the hypothalamus when an increase in metabolic efficiency is necessary.

DOI: 10.1038/35038090 
PMID: 11057670  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):906-8.

Involuntary orienting to sound improves visual perception.

McDonald JJ(1), Teder-Sälejärvi WA, Hillyard SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences, School of Medicine, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla 92093-0608, USA. jmcd@sfu.ca

To perceive real-world objects and events, we need to integrate several stimulus 
features belonging to different sensory modalities. Although the neural
mechanisms and behavioural consequences of intersensory integration have been
extensively studied, the processes that enable us to pay attention to multimodal 
objects are still poorly understood. An important question is whether a stimulus 
in one sensory modality automatically attracts attention to spatially coincident 
stimuli that appear subsequently in other modalities, thereby enhancing their
perceptual salience. The occurrence of an irrelevant sound does facilitate motor 
responses to a subsequent light appearing nearby. However, because participants
in previous studies made speeded responses rather than psychophysical judgements,
it remains unclear whether involuntary auditory attention actually affects the
perceptibility of visual stimuli as opposed to postperceptual decision and
response processes. Here we provide psychophysical evidence that a sudden sound
improves the detectability of a subsequent flash appearing at the same location. 
These data show that the involuntary orienting of attention to sound enhances
early perceptual processing of visual stimuli.

DOI: 10.1038/35038085 
PMID: 11057669  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):903-6.

Metapopulation dynamics of bubonic plague.

Keeling MJ(1), Gilligan CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge, UK. matt@zoo.cam.ac.uk

Bubonic plague is widely regarded as a disease of mainly historical importance;
however, with increasing reports of incidence and the discovery of
antibiotic-resistant strains of the plague bacterium Yersinia pestis, it is
re-emerging as a significant health concerns. Here we bypass the conventional
human-disease models, and propose that bubonic plague is driven by the dynamics
of the disease in the rat population. Using a stochastic, spatial metapopulation 
model, we show that bubonic plague can persist in relatively small rodent
populations from which occasional human epidemics arise, without the need for
external imports. This explains why historically the plague persisted despite
long disease-free periods, and how the disease re-occurred in cities with tight
quarantine control. In a contemporary setting, we show that human vaccination
cannot eradicate the plague, and that culling of rats may prevent or exacerbate
human epidemics, depending on the timing of the cull. The existence of plague
reservoirs in wild rodent populations has important public-health implications
for the transmission to urban rats and the subsequent risk of human outbreaks.

DOI: 10.1038/35038073 
PMID: 11057668  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):900-3.

The proteins of linked genes evolve at similar rates.

Williams EJ(1), Hurst LD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and Biochemistry, University of Bath, Claverton Down,
UK.

Much more variation in the rate of protein evolution occurs than is expected by
chance. But why some proteins evolve rapidly but others slowly is poorly
resolved. It was proposed, for example, that essential genes might evolve slower 
than dispensable ones, but this is not the case; and despite earlier claims,
rates of evolution do not correlate with amino-acid composition. A few patterns
have been found: proteins involved in antagonistic co-evolution (for example,
immune genes, parasite antigens and reproductive conflict genes) tend to be
rapidly evolving, and there is a correlation between the rate of protein
evolution and the mutation rate of the gene. Here we report a new highly
statistically significant predictor of a protein's rate of evolution, and show
that linked genes have similar rates of protein evolution. There is also a weaker
similarity of rates of silent site evolution (see ref. 13), which appears to be, 
in part, a consequence of the similarity in rates of protein evolution. The
similarity in rates of protein evolution is not a consequence of underlying
mutational patterns. A pronounced negative correlation between the rate of
protein evolution and a covariant of the recombination rate indicates that rates 
of protein evolution possibly reflect, in part, the local strength of stabilizing
selection.

DOI: 10.1038/35038066 
PMID: 11057667  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):897-900.

Isolation of a 250 million-year-old halotolerant bacterium from a primary salt
crystal.

Vreeland RH(1), Rosenzweig WD, Powers DW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, West Chester University, Pennsylvania 19383, USA.
rvreeland@wcupa.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):844-5.
    Nature. 2001 May 10;411(6834):155-6.

Bacteria have been found associated with a variety of ancient samples, however
few studies are generally accepted due to questions about sample quality and
contamination. When Cano and Borucki isolated a strain of Bacillus sphaericus
from an extinct bee trapped in 25-30 million-year-old amber, careful sample
selection and stringent sterilization techniques were the keys to acceptance.
Here we report the isolation and growth of a previously unrecognized
spore-forming bacterium (Bacillus species, designated 2-9-3) from a brine
inclusion within a 250 million-year-old salt crystal from the Permian Salado
Formation. Complete gene sequences of the 16S ribosomal DNA show that the
organism is part of the lineage of Bacillus marismortui and Virgibacillus
pantothenticus. Delicate crystal structures and sedimentary features indicate the
salt has not recrystallized since formation. Samples were rejected if brine
inclusions showed physical signs of possible contamination. Surfaces of salt
crystal samples were sterilized with strong alkali and acid before extracting
brines from inclusions. Sterilization procedures reduce the probability of
contamination to less than 1 in 10(9).

DOI: 10.1038/35038060 
PMID: 11057666  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):894-7.

Starch grains reveal early root crop horticulture in the Panamanian tropical
forest.

Piperno DR(1), Ranere AJ, Holst I, Hansell P.

Author information: 
(1)Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Ancon, Balboa, Republic of Panama.
pipernod@stri.org

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):145-6.

Native American populations are known to have cultivated a large number of plants
and domesticated them for their starch-rich underground organs. Suggestions that 
the likely source of many of these crops, the tropical forest, was an early and
influential centre of plant husbandry have long been controversial because the
organic remains of roots and tubers are poorly preserved in archaeological
sediments from the humid tropics. Here we report the occurrence of starch grains 
identifiable as manioc (Manihot esculenta Crantz), yams (Dioscorea sp.) and
arrowroot (Maranta arundinacea L.) on assemblages of plant milling stones from
preceramic horizons at the Aguadulce Shelter, Panama, dated between 7,000 and
5,000 years before present (BP). The artefacts also contain maize starch (Zea
mays L.), indicating that early horticultural systems in this region were
mixtures of root and seed crops. The data provide the earliest direct evidence
for root crop cultivation in the Americas, and support an ancient and independent
emergence of plant domestication in the lowland Neotropical forest.

DOI: 10.1038/35038055 
PMID: 11057665  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):891-4.

Non-chondritic distribution of the highly siderophile elements in mantle
sulphides.

Alard O(1), Griffin WL, Lorand JP, Jackson SE, O'Reilly SY.

Author information: 
(1)GEMOC, Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Macquarie University,
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. oalard@laurel.ocs.mq.edu.au

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):848-9.

The abundances of highly siderophile (iron-loving) elements (HSEs) in the Earth's
mantle provide important constraints on models of the Earth's early evolution. It
has long been assumed that the relative abundances of HSEs should reflect the
composition of chondritic meteorites--which are thought to represent the
primordial material from which the Earth was formed. But the non-chondritic
abundance ratios recently found in several types of rock derived from the Earth's
mantle have been difficult to reconcile with standard models of the Earth's
accretion, and have been interpreted as having arisen from the addition to the
primitive mantle of either non-chondritic extraterrestrial material or
differentiated material from the Earth's core. Here we report in situ
laser-ablation analyses of sulphides in mantle-derived rocks which show that
these sulphides do not have chondritic HSE patterns, but that different
generations of sulphide within single samples show extreme variability in the
relative abundances of HSEs. Sulphides enclosed in silicate phases have high
osmium and iridium abundances but low Pd/Ir ratios, whereas pentlandite-dominated
interstitial sulphides show low osmium and iridium abundances and high Pd/Ir
ratios. We interpret the silicate-enclosed sulphides as the residues of melting
processes and interstitial sulphides as the crystallization products of
sulphide-bearing (metasomatic) fluids. We suggest that non-chondritic HSE
patterns directly reflect processes occurring in the upper mantle--that is,
melting and sulphide addition via metasomatism--and are not evidence for the
addition of core material or of 'exotic' meteoritic components.

DOI: 10.1038/35038049 
PMID: 11057664 


185. Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):887-90.

Cooler winters as a possible cause of mass extinctions at the Eocene/Oligocene
boundary.

Ivany LC(1), Patterson WP, Lohmann KC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geological Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48109,
USA. lcivany@syr.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):851-2.

The Eocene/Oligocene boundary, at about 33.7 Myr ago, marks one of the largest
extinctions of marine invertebrates in the Cenozoic period. For example, turnover
of mollusc species in the US Gulf coastal plain was over 90% at this time. A
temperature change across this boundary--from warm Eocene climates to cooler
conditions in the Oligocene--has been suggested as a cause of this extinction
event, but climate reconstructions have not provided support for this hypothesis.
Here we report stable oxygen isotope measurements of aragonite in fish
otoliths--ear stones--collected across the Eocene/Oligocene boundary.
Palaeo-temperatures reconstructed from mean otolith oxygen isotope values show
little change through this interval, in agreement with previous studies. From
incremental microsampling of otoliths, however, we can resolve the seasonal
variation in temperature, recorded as the otoliths continue to accrete new
material over the life of the fish. These seasonal data suggest that winters
became about 4 degrees C colder across the Eocene/Oligocene boundary. We suggest 
that temperature variability, rather than change in mean annual temperature,
helped to cause faunal turnover during this transition.

DOI: 10.1038/35038044 
PMID: 11057663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):885-7.

Electrochemically induced annealing of stainless-steel surfaces.

Burstein GT(1), Hutchings IM, Sasaki K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials Science and Metallurgy, University of Cambridge, UK.
gtb1000@cus.cam.ac.uk

Modification of the surface properties of metals without affecting their bulk
properties is of technological interest in demanding applications where surface
stability and hardness are important. When austenitic stainless steel is heavily 
plastically deformed by grinding or rolling, a martensitic phase transformation
occurs that causes significant changes in the bulk and surface mechanical
properties of the alloy. This martensitic phase can also be generated in
stainless-steel surfaces by cathodic charging, as a consequence of lattice strain
generated by absorbed hydrogen. Heat treatment of the steel to temperatures of
several hundred degrees can result in loss of the martensitic structure, but this
alters the bulk properties of the alloy. Here we show that martensitic structures
in stainless steel can be removed by appropriate electrochemical treatment in
aqueous solutions at much lower temperature than conventional annealing
treatments. This electrochemically induced annealing process allows the hardness 
of cold-worked stainless steels to be maintained, while eliminating the brittle
martensitic phase from the surface. Using this approach, we are able to anneal
the surface and near-surface regions of specimens that contain rolling-induced
martensite throughout their bulk, as well as those containing surface martensite 
induced by grinding. Although the origin of the electrochemical annealing process
still needs further clarification, we expect that this treatment will lead to
further development in enhancing the surface properties of metals.

DOI: 10.1038/35038040 
PMID: 11057662 


187. Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):883-5.

Origin of ferromagnetic exchange interactions in a fullerene-organic compound.

Narymbetov B(1), Omerzu A, Kabanov VV, Tokumoto M, Kobayashi H, Mihailovic D.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Molecular Science, Okazaki, Japan.

Organic ferromagnets, which exhibit exchange interactions between unpaired
electrons in pi-orbitals, are rare, and the origin of ferromagnetism in these
compounds has so far remained unexplained.
Tetrakis(dimethylamino)ethylene-fullerene[60] (TDAE-C60) shows a transition to a 
ferromagnetic state with fully saturated s = 1/2 molecular spins at the
relatively high Curie temperature (for organic materials) of 16 K (ref. 4). It
has been suggested that the orientations of the C60 molecules may be important
for ferromagnetism in this material, but in the absence of structural data at low
temperatures there has been little progress towards understanding these
microscopic interactions. Here we report the results of a comparative structural 
study of two different magnetic forms of TDAE-C60 crystals at low temperatures,
correlating the structural properties--in particular, the intermolecular
orientations--with the magnetic properties. We find that both ferromagnetism and 
spin-glass-like ordering are possible in this material, and depend on the
orientational state of C60 molecules. This resolves the apparent contradictions
posed by different macroscopic measurements, and opens the way to a microscopic
understanding of pi-electron ferromagnetic exchange interactions in organic
materials.

DOI: 10.1038/35038032 
PMID: 11057661 


188. Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):880-3.

Strain effects and phase transitions in photonic resonator crystals.

Pier H(1), Kapon E, Moser M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (EPFL), Lausanne.
harald.pier@ipi.ch

Optical structures with periodic variations of the dielectric constant in one or 
more directions (photonic crystals) have been employed extensively for studying
optical diffraction phenomena. Practical interest in such structures arises from 
the possibilities they offer for tailoring photon modes, and thereby the
characteristics of light propagation and light-matter interactions. Photonic
resonator crystals comprising two-dimensional arrays of coupled optical
microcavities have been fabricated using vertical-cavity surface-emitting laser
wafers. In such structures, the light propagates mostly normal to the periodic
plane. Therefore, the corresponding lateral Bragg-periodicities are larger, a
feature that is advantageous for device manufacture as it allows for larger
lattice constants in the lateral direction. Here we investigate strain effects in
a photonic resonator crystal by shifting neighbouring lattice rows of
microcavities in opposite directions, thereby introducing an alternating square
or quasi-hexagonal pattern of shear strain. We find that, for strain values below
a critical threshold, the lasing photon mode is virtually locked to the
corresponding mode supported by the unstrained photonic crystal. At the critical 
strain value, we observe a phase-transition-like switching between the square and
quasi-hexagonal lattice modes. The tolerance of subcritical strains suggests that
the resonator crystal may be useful for applications requiring high spatial
coherence across the lattice, while the mode switching could potentially be
exploited in free-space optical communications.

DOI: 10.1038/35038026 
PMID: 11057660 


189. Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):877-9.

Molecular emission from single-bubble sonoluminescence.

Didenko YT(1), McNamara WB 3rd, Suslick KS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana
61801, USA.

Ultrasound can drive a single gas bubble in water into violent oscillation; as
the bubble is compressed periodically, extremely short flashes of light (about
100 ps) are generated with clock-like regularity. This process, known as
single-bubble sonoluminescence, gives rise to featureless continuum emission in
water (from 200 to 800 nm, with increasing intensity into the ultraviolet). In
contrast, the emission of light from clouds of cavitating bubbles at higher
acoustic pressures (multi-bubble sonoluminescence) is dominated by atomic and
molecular excited-state emission at much lower temperatures. These observations
have spurred intense effort to uncover the origin of sonoluminescence and to
generalize the conditions necessary for its creation. Here we report a series of 
polar aprotic liquids that generate very strong single-bubble sonoluminescence,
during which emission from molecular excited states is observed. Previously,
single-bubble sonoluminescence from liquids other than water has proved extremely
elusive. Our results give direct proof of the existence of chemical reactions and
the formation of molecular excited states during single-bubble cavitation, and
provide a spectroscopic link between single- and multi-bubble sonoluminescence.

DOI: 10.1038/35038020 
PMID: 11057659 


190. Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):870-6.

Vasoregulation by the beta1 subunit of the calcium-activated potassium channel.

Brenner R(1), Peréz GJ, Bonev AD, Eckman DM, Kosek JC, Wiler SW, Patterson AJ,
Nelson MT, Aldrich RW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology and Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Stanford University, California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):845, 847-8.

Small arteries exhibit tone, a partially contracted state that is an important
determinant of blood pressure. In arterial smooth muscle cells, intracellular
calcium paradoxically controls both contraction and relaxation. The mechanisms by
which calcium can differentially regulate diverse physiological responses within 
a single cell remain unresolved. Calcium-dependent relaxation is mediated by
local calcium release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum. These 'calcium sparks'
activate calcium-dependent potassium (BK) channels comprised of alpha and beta1
subunits. Here we show that targeted deletion of the gene for the beta1 subunit
leads to a decrease in the calcium sensitivity of BK channels, a reduction in
functional coupling of calcium sparks to BK channel activation, and increases in 
arterial tone and blood pressure. The beta1 subunit of the BK channel, by tuning 
the channel's calcium sensitivity, is a key molecular component in translating
calcium signals to the central physiological function of vasoregulation.

DOI: 10.1038/35038011 
PMID: 11057658  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Nature. 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):859-69.

Glacial/interglacial variations in atmospheric carbon dioxide.

Sigman DM(1), Boyle EA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geosciences, Princeton University, New Jersey 08544, USA.
sigman@princeton.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2001 Aug 9;412(6847):605-6.

Twenty years ago, measurements on ice cores showed that the concentration of
carbon dioxide in the atmosphere was lower during ice ages than it is today. As
yet, there is no broadly accepted explanation for this difference. Current
investigations focus on the ocean's 'biological pump', the sequestration of
carbon in the ocean interior by the rain of organic carbon out of the surface
ocean, and its effect on the burial of calcium carbonate in marine sediments.
Some researchers surmise that the whole-ocean reservoir of algal nutrients was
larger during glacial times, strengthening the biological pump at low latitudes, 
where these nutrients are currently limiting. Others propose that the biological 
pump was more efficient during glacial times because of more complete utilization
of nutrients at high latitudes, where much of the nutrient supply currently goes 
unused. We present a version of the latter hypothesis that focuses on the open
ocean surrounding Antarctica, involving both the biology and physics of that
region.

DOI: 10.1038/35038000 
PMID: 11057657  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):810-6.

From bench to clinic with apoptosis-based therapeutic agents.

Nicholson DW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Merck Frosst Centre for Therapeutic Research, Merck Research Laboratories,
Pointe Claire-Dorval, Quebec, Canada. donald_nicholson@merck.com

A retrospective look at the basis of human disease pathogenesis almost always
reveals an apoptotic component that either contributes to disease progression or 
accounts for it. What makes this field particularly exciting is the breadth of
therapeutic opportunities that are on offer. The pace of apoptosis research has
raised expectations that therapeutics will follow soon. But many of the
organizations that are best placed to take advantage of these discoveries
consider the ability to modulate the life or death of a cell for the purpose of
disease treatment as perhaps being 'too good to be true'. Nevertheless, practical
therapeutics that modulate apoptosis will no doubt appear in the clinic or on the
shelf in the next few years.

DOI: 10.1038/35037747 
PMID: 11048733  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):802-9.

Apoptosis in the nervous system.

Yuan J(1), Yankner BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA. junying_yuan@hms.harvard.edu

Neuronal apoptosis sculpts the developing brain and has a potentially important
role in neurodegenerative diseases. The principal molecular components of the
apoptosis programme in neurons include Apaf-1 (apoptotic protease-activating
factor 1) and proteins of the Bcl-2 and caspase families. Neurotrophins regulate 
neuronal apoptosis through the action of critical protein kinase cascades, such
as the phosphoinositide 3-kinase/Akt and mitogen-activated protein kinase
pathways. Similar cell-death-signalling pathways might be activated in
neurodegenerative diseases by abnormal protein structures, such as amyloid
fibrils in Alzheimer's disease. Elucidation of the cell death machinery in
neurons promises to provide multiple points of therapeutic intervention in
neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/35037739 
PMID: 11048732  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):796-801.

Apoptosis in development.

Meier P(1), Finch A, Evan G.

Author information: 
(1)Signal Transduction Laboratory, Imperial Cancer Research Fund, London, UK.
meierp@icr.ac.uk

Essential to the construction, maintenance and repair of tissues is the ability
to induce suicide of supernumerary, misplaced or damaged cells with high
specificity and efficiency. Study of three principal organisms--the nematode,
fruitfly and mouse--indicate that cell suicide is implemented through the
activation of an evolutionarily conserved molecular programme intrinsic to all
metazoan cells. Dysfunctions in the regulation or execution of cell suicide are
implicated in a wide range of developmental abnormalities and diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/35037734 
PMID: 11048731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):789-95.

CD95's deadly mission in the immune system.

Krammer PH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Tumorimmunology Program, German Cancer Research Center, Heidelberg, Germany.

Apoptosis in the immune system is a fundamental process regulating lymphocyte
maturation, receptor repertoire selection and homeostasis. Thus, death by
apoptosis is as essential for the function of lymphocytes as growth and
differentiation. This article focuses on death receptor-associated apoptosis and 
the role of CD95 (Apo-1/Fas)-mediated signalling in T-cell and B-cell development
and during the course of an immune response. Gaining an insight into these
processes improves our understanding of the pathogenesis of diseases such as
cancer, autoimmunity and AIDS, and opens new approaches to rational treatment
strategies.

DOI: 10.1038/35037728 
PMID: 11048730  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):784-8.

Corpse clearance defines the meaning of cell death.

Savill J(1), Fadok V.

Author information: 
(1)University of Edinburgh/Medical Research Council Centre for Inflammation
Research, Department of Clinical and Surgical Sciences, Internal Medicine, Royal 
Infirmary, UK. j.savill@ed.ac.uk

While philosophers seek the meaning of life, cell biologists are becoming ever
more interested in the meaning of death. Apoptosis marks unwanted cells with 'eat
me' signals that direct recognition, engulfment and degradation by phagocytes.
Far from being the end of the story, these clearance events allow scavenger cells
to confer meaning upon cell death. But if the phagocytic 'spin doctors' receive
or transmit the wrong messages, trouble ensues.

DOI: 10.1038/35037722 
PMID: 11048729  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):777-83.

Defying death after DNA damage.

Rich T(1), Allen RL, Wyllie AH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Cambridge, UK.

DNA damage frequently triggers death by apoptosis. The irreversible decision to
die can be facilitated or forestalled through integration of a wide variety of
stimuli from within and around the cell. Here we address some fundamental
questions that arise from this model. Why should DNA damage initiate apoptosis in
the first place? In damaged cells, what are the alternatives to death and why
should they be selected in some circumstances but not others? What signals
register DNA damage and how do they impinge on the effector pathways of
apoptosis? Is there a suborganellar apoptosome complex effecting the integration 
of death signals within the nucleus, just as there is in the cytoplasm? And what 
are the consequences of failure to initiate apoptosis in response to DNA damage?

DOI: 10.1038/35037717 
PMID: 11048728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):770-6.

The biochemistry of apoptosis.

Hengartner MO(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, New York 11724, USA. hengartn@cshl.org

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):685-7.

Apoptosis--the regulated destruction of a cell--is a complicated process. The
decision to die cannot be taken lightly, and the activity of many genes influence
a cell's likelihood of activating its self-destruction programme. Once the
decision is taken, proper execution of the apoptotic programme requires the
coordinated activation and execution of multiple subprogrammes. Here I review the
basic components of the death machinery, describe how they interact to regulate
apoptosis in a coordinated manner, and discuss the main pathways that are used to
activate cell death.

DOI: 10.1038/35037710 
PMID: 11048727  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):765-7.

Messenger RNA targeting of rice seed storage proteins to specific ER subdomains.

Choi SB(1), Wang C, Muench DG, Ozawa K, Franceschi VR, Wu Y, Okita TW.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biological Chemistry, Washington State University, Pullman 99164,
USA.

Rice seeds, a rich reserve of starch and protein, are a major food source in many
countries. Unlike the seeds of other plants, which typically accumulate one major
type of storage protein, rice seeds use two major classes, prolamines and
globulin-like glutelins. Both storage proteins are synthesized on the endoplasmic
reticulum (ER) and translocated to the ER lumen, but are then sorted into
separate intracellular compartments. Prolamines are retained in the ER lumen as
protein bodies whereas glutelins are transported and stored in protein storage
vacuoles. Mechanisms responsible for the retention of prolamines within the ER
lumen and their assembly into intracisternal inclusion granules are unknown, but 
the involvement of RNA localization has been suggested. Here we show that the
storage protein RNAs are localized to distinct ER membranes and that prolamine
RNAs are targeted to the prolamine protein bodies by a mechanism based on RNA
signal(s), a process that also requires a translation initiation codon. Our
results indicate that the ER may be composed of subdomains that specialize in the
synthesis of proteins directed to different compartments of the plant
endomembrane system.

DOI: 10.1038/35037633 
PMID: 11048726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):762-4.

Quorum-sensing signals indicate that cystic fibrosis lungs are infected with
bacterial biofilms.

Singh PK(1), Schaefer AL, Parsek MR, Moninger TO, Welsh MJ, Greenberg EP.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute & Department of Internal Medicine, University 
of Iowa College of Medicine, Iowa City 52242, USA.

The bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa permanently colonizes cystic fibrosis lungs 
despite aggressive antibiotic treatment. This suggests that P. aeruginosa might
exist as biofilms--structured communities of bacteria encased in a self-produced 
polymeric matrix--in the cystic fibrosis lung. Consistent with this hypothesis,
microscopy of cystic fibrosis sputum shows that P. aeruginosa are in biofilm-like
structures. P. aeruginosa uses extracellular quorum-sensing signals
(extracellular chemical signals that cue cell-density-dependent gene expression) 
to coordinate biofilm formation. Here we found that cystic fibrosis sputum
produces the two principal P. aeruginosa quorum-sensing signals; however, the
relative abundance of these signals was opposite to that of the standard P.
aeruginosa strain PAO1 in laboratory broth culture. When P. aeruginosa sputum
isolates were grown in broth, some showed quorum-sensing signal ratios like those
of the laboratory strain. When we grew these isolates and PAO1 in a laboratory
biofilm model, the signal ratios were like those in cystic fibrosis sputum. Our
data support the hypothesis that P. aeruginosa are in a biofilm in cystic
fibrosis sputum. Moreover, quorum-sensing signal profiling of specific P.
aeruginosa strains may serve as a biomarker in screens to identify agents that
interfere with biofilm development.

DOI: 10.1038/35037627 
PMID: 11048725  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):757-62.

The complete sequence of the mucosal pathogen Ureaplasma urealyticum.

Glass JI(1), Lefkowitz EJ, Glass JS, Heiner CR, Chen EY, Cassell GH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 35294, USA.

The comparison of the genomes of two very closely related human mucosal
pathogens, Mycoplasma genitalium and Mycoplasma pneumoniae, has helped define the
essential functions of a self-replicating minimal cell, as well as what
constitutes a mycoplasma. Here we report the complete sequence of a more distant 
phylogenetic relative of those bacteria, Ureaplasma urealyticum (parvum biovar), 
which is also a mucosal pathogen of humans. It is the third mycoplasma to be
sequenced, and has the smallest sequenced prokaryotic genome except for M.
genitalium. Although the U. urealyticum genome is similar to the two sequenced
mycoplasma genomes, features make this organism unique among mycoplasmas and all 
bacteria. Almost all ATP synthesis is the result of urea hydrolysis, which
generates an energy-producing electrochemical gradient. Some highly conserved
eubacterial enzymes appear not to be encoded by U. urealyticum, including the
cell-division protein FtsZ, chaperonins GroES and GroEL, and
ribonucleoside-diphosphate reductase. U. urealyticum has six closely related iron
transporters, which apparently arose through gene duplication, suggesting that it
has a kind of respiration system not present in other small genome bacteria The
genome is only 25.5% G+C in nucleotide content, and the G+C content of individual
genes may predict how essential those genes are to ureaplasma survival.

DOI: 10.1038/35037619 
PMID: 11048724  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):754-7.

Somatic control over the germline stem cell lineage during Drosophila
spermatogenesis.

Tran J(1), Brenner TJ, DiNardo S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell & Developmental Biology, University of Pennsylvania Medical
Center, Philadelphia 19104-6058, USA.

Stem cells divide both to produce new stem cells and to generate daughter cells
that can differentiate. The underlying mechanisms are not well understood, but
conceptually are of two kinds. Intrinsic mechanisms may control the unequal
partitioning of determinants leading to asymmetric cell divisions that yield one 
stem cell and one differentiated daughter cell. Alternatively, extrinsic
mechanisms, involving stromal cell signals, could cause daughter cells that
remain in their proper niche to stay stem cells, whereas daughter cells that
leave this niche differentiate. Here we use Drosophila spermatogenesis as a model
stem cell system to show that there are excess stem cells and gonialblasts in
testes that are deficient for Raf activity. In addition, the germline stem cell
population remains active for a longer fraction of lifespan than in wild type.
Finally, raf is required in somatic cells that surround germ cells. We conclude
that a cell-extrinsic mechanism regulates germline stem cell behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/35037613 
PMID: 11048723  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):750-4.

Somatic support cells restrict germline stem cell self-renewal and promote
differentiation.

Kiger AA(1), White-Cooper H, Fuller MT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Biology, Stanford University School of Medicine,
California 94305-5329, USA.

Stem cells maintain populations of highly differentiated, short-lived cell-types,
including blood, skin and sperm, throughout adult life. Understanding the
mechanisms that regulate stem cell behaviour is crucial for realizing their
potential in regenerative medicine. A fundamental characteristic of stem cells is
their capacity for asymmetric division: daughter cells either retain stem cell
identity or initiate differentiation. However, stem cells are also capable of
symmetric division where both daughters remain stem cells, indicating that
mechanisms must exist to balance self-renewal capacity with differentiation. Here
we present evidence that support cells surrounding the stem cells restrict
self-renewal and control stem cell number by ensuring asymmetric division. Loss
of function of the Drosophila Epidermal growth factor receptor in somatic cells
disrupted the balance of self-renewal versus differentiation in the male
germline, increasing the number of germline stem cells. We propose that
activation of this receptor specifies normal behaviour of somatic support cells; 
in turn, the somatic cells play a guardian role, providing information that
prevents self-renewal of stem cell identity by the germ cell they enclose.

DOI: 10.1038/35037606 
PMID: 11048722  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):747-50.

Netrin-1-mediated axon outgrowth and cAMP production requires interaction with
adenosine A2b receptor.

Corset V(1), Nguyen-Ba-Charvet KT, Forcet C, Moyse E, Chédotal A, Mehlen P.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire Apoptose et Différenciation, label La Ligue-Centre de Génétique
Moléculaire et Cellulaire, CNRS UMR 5534, Université Lyon 1, Villeurbanne,
France.

The netrins, a family of laminin-related secreted proteins, are critical in
controlling axon elongation and pathfinding. The DCC (for deleted in colorectal
cancer) protein was proposed as a receptor for netrin-1 in the light of many
observations including the inhibition of netrin-1-mediated axon outgrowth and
attraction in the presence of an anti-DCC antiserum, the similitude of nervous
system defects in DCC and netrin-1 knockout mice and the results of receptor
swapping experiments. Previous studies have failed to show a direct interaction
of DCC with netrin-1 (ref. 10), suggesting the possibility of an additional
receptor or co-receptor. Here we show that DCC interacts with the
membrane-associated adenosine A2b receptor, a G-protein-coupled receptor that
induces cAMP accumulation on binding adenosine. We show that A2b is actually a
netrin-1 receptor and induces cAMP accumulation on binding netrin-1. Finally, we 
show that netrin-1-dependent outgrowth of dorsal spinal cord axons directly
involves A2b. Together our results indicate that the growth-promoting function of
netrin-1 may require a receptor complex containing DCC and A2b.

DOI: 10.1038/35037600 
PMID: 11048721  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):742-7.

Learning of action through adaptive combination of motor primitives.

Thoroughman KA(1), Shadmehr R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Maryland 21205, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):682-3.

Understanding how the brain constructs movements remains a fundamental challenge 
in neuroscience. The brain may control complex movements through flexible
combination of motor primitives, where each primitive is an element of
computation in the sensorimotor map that transforms desired limb trajectories
into motor commands. Theoretical studies have shown that a system's ability to
learn action depends on the shape of its primitives. Using a time-series analysis
of error patterns, here we show that humans learn the dynamics of reaching
movements through a flexible combination of primitives that have gaussian-like
tuning functions encoding hand velocity. The wide tuning of the inferred
primitives predicts limitations on the brain's ability to represent viscous
dynamics. We find close agreement between the predicted limitations and the
subjects' adaptation to new force fields. The mathematical properties of the
derived primitives resemble the tuning curves of Purkinje cells in the
cerebellum. The activity of these cells may encode primitives that underlie the
learning of dynamics.

DOI: 10.1038/35037588 
PMCID: PMC2556237
PMID: 11048720  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):739-42.

Natural selection and sympatric divergence in the apple maggot Rhagoletis
pomonella.

Filchak KE(1), Roethele JB, Feder JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Galvin Life Science Center, University of
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556-0169, USA. Filchak.1@nd.edu

In On the Origin of Species, Darwin proposed that natural selection had a
fundamental role in speciation. But this view receded during the Modern Synthesis
when allopatric (geographic) models of speciation were integrated with genetic
studies of hybrid sterility and inviability. The sympatric hypothesis posits that
ecological specialization after a host shift can result in speciation in the
absence of complete geographic isolation. The apple maggot, Rhagoletis pomonella,
is a model for sympatric speciation in progress. Hawthorn (Crataegus spp.) is the
native host for R. pomonella in N. Americas. But in the mid-1800s, a new
population formed on introduced, domesticated apple (Malus pumila). Recent
studies have conferred 'host race' status on apple flies as a potentially
incipient species, partially isolated from haw flies owing to host-related
adaptation. However, the source of selection that differentiates apple and haw
flies is unresolved. Here we document a gene-environment interaction (fitness
trade-off) that is related to host phenology and that genetically differentiates 
the races.

DOI: 10.1038/35037578 
PMID: 11048719  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):736-9.

The population genetics of ecological specialization in evolving Escherichia coli
populations.

Cooper VS(1), Lenski RE.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Microbial Ecology, Michigan State University, East Lansing 48824,
USA. cooperva@msu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):689-90.

When organisms adapt genetically to one environment, they may lose fitness in
other environments. Two distinct population genetic processes can produce
ecological specialization-mutation accumulation and antagonistic pleiotropy. In
mutation accumulation, mutations become fixed by genetic drift in genes that are 
not maintained by selection; adaptation to one environment and loss of adaptation
to another are caused by different mutations. Antagonistic pleiotropy arises from
trade-offs, such that the same mutations that are beneficial in one environment
are detrimental in another. In general, it is difficult to distinguish between
these processes. We analysed the decay of unused catabolic functions in 12 lines 
of Escherichia coli propagated on glucose for 20,000 generations. During that
time, several lines evolved high mutation rates. If mutation accumulation is
important, their unused functions should decay more than the other lines, but no 
significant difference was observed. Moreover, most catabolic losses occurred
early in the experiment when beneficial mutations were being rapidly fixed, a
pattern predicted by antagonistic pleiotropy. Thus, antagonistic pleiotropy
appears more important than mutation accumulation for the decay of unused
catabolic functions in these populations.

DOI: 10.1038/35037572 
PMID: 11048718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):734-6.

The possible subduction of continental material to depths greater than 200 km.

Ye K(1), Cong B, Ye D.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Lithosphere Tectonic Evolution, Institute of Geology and
Geophysics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing. yekai@hotmail.com

Determining the depth to which continental lithosphere can be subducted into the 
mantle at convergent plate boundaries is of importance for understanding the
long-term growth of supercontinents as well as the dynamic processes that shape
such margins. Recent discoveries of coesite and diamond in regional
ultrahigh-pressure (UHP) metamorphic rocks has demonstrated that continental
material can be subducted to depths of at least 120 km (ref. 1), and subduction
to depths of 150-300 km has been inferred from garnet peridotites in orogenic UHP
belts based on several indirect observations. But continental subduction to such 
depths is difficult to trace directly in natural UHP metamorphic crustal rocks by
conventional mineralogical and petrological methods because of extensive
late-stage recrystallization and the lack of a suitable pressure indicator. It
has been predicted from experimental work, however, that solid-state dissolution 
of pyroxene should occur in garnet at depths greater than 150 km (refs 6-8). Here
we report the observation of high concentrations of clinopyroxene, rutile and
apatite exsolutions in garnet within eclogites from Yangkou in the Sulu UHP
metamorphic belt, China. We interpret these data as resulting from the
high-pressure formation of pyroxene solid solutions in subducted continental
material. Appropriate conditions for the Na2O concentrations and octahedral
silicon observed in these samples are met at depths greater than 200 km.

DOI: 10.1038/35037566 
PMID: 11048717 


209. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):730-3.

Effect of iron supply on Southern Ocean CO2 uptake and implications for glacial
atmospheric CO2.

Watson AJ(1), Bakker DC, Ridgwell AJ, Boyd PW, Law CS.

Author information: 
(1)School of Environmental Sciences, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK.
a.watson@uea.ac.uk

Photosynthesis by marine phytoplankton in the Southern Ocean, and the associated 
uptake of carbon, is thought to be currently limited by the availability of iron.
One implication of this limitation is that a larger iron supply to the region in 
glacial times could have stimulated algal photosynthesis, leading to lower
concentrations of atmospheric CO2. Similarly, it has been proposed that
artificial iron fertilization of the oceans might increase future carbon
sequestration. Here we report data from a whole-ecosystem test of the
iron-limitation hypothesis in the Southern Ocean, which show that surface uptake 
of atmospheric CO2 and uptake ratios of silica to carbon by phytoplankton were
strongly influenced by nanomolar increases of iron concentration. We use these
results to inform a model of global carbon and ocean nutrients, forced with
atmospheric iron fluxes to the region derived from the Vostok ice-core dust
record. During glacial periods, predicted magnitudes and timings of atmospheric
CO2 changes match ice-core records well. At glacial terminations, the model
suggests that forcing of Southern Ocean biota by iron caused the initial
approximately 40 p.p.m. of glacial-interglacial CO2 change, but other mechanisms 
must have accounted for the remaining 40 p.p.m. increase. The experiment also
confirms that modest sequestration of atmospheric CO2 by artificial additions of 
iron to the Southern Ocean is in principle possible, although the period and
geographical extent over which sequestration would be effective remain poorly
known.

DOI: 10.1038/35037561 
PMID: 11048716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):727-30.

Importance of stirring in the development of an iron-fertilized phytoplankton
bloom.

Abraham ER(1), Law CS, Boyd PW, Lavender SJ, Maldonado MT, Bowie AR.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Water and Atmospheric Research, Kilbirnie, Wellington, 
New Zealand. e.abraham@niwa.cri.nz

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):685-7.

The growth of populations is known to be influenced by dispersal, which has often
been described as purely diffusive. In the open ocean, however, the tendrils and 
filaments of phytoplankton populations provide evidence for dispersal by
stirring. Despite the apparent importance of horizontal stirring for plankton
ecology, this process remains poorly characterized. Here we investigate the
development of a discrete phytoplankton bloom, which was initiated by the iron
fertilization of a patch of water (7 km in diameter) in the Southern Ocean.
Satellite images show a striking, 150-km-long bloom near the experimental site,
six weeks after the initial fertilization. We argue that the ribbon-like bloom
was produced from the fertilized patch through stirring, growth and diffusion,
and we derive an estimate of the stirring rate. In this case, stirring acts as an
important control on bloom development, mixing phytoplankton and iron out of the 
patch, but also entraining silicate. This may have prevented the onset of
silicate limitation, and so allowed the bloom to continue for as long as there
was sufficient iron. Stirring in the ocean is likely to be variable, so blooms
that are initially similar may develop very differently.

DOI: 10.1038/35037555 
PMID: 11048715  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):724-7.

Prototype systems for rechargeable magnesium batteries.

Aurbach D(1), Lu Z, Schechter A, Gofer Y, Gizbar H, Turgeman R, Cohen Y,
Moshkovich M, Levi E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Bar-Ilan University, Ramat Gan, Israel.
aurbach@mail.biu.ac.il

The thermodynamic properties of magnesium make it a natural choice for use as an 
anode material in rechargeable batteries, because it may provide a considerably
higher energy density than the commonly used lead-acid and nickel-cadmium
systems. Moreover, in contrast to lead and cadmium, magnesium is inexpensive,
environmentally friendly and safe to handle. But the development of Mg batteries 
has been hindered by two problems. First, owing to the chemical activity of Mg,
only solutions that neither donate nor accept protons are suitable as
electrolytes; but most of these solutions allow the growth of passivating surface
films, which inhibit any electrochemical reaction. Second, the choice of cathode 
materials has been limited by the difficulty of intercalating Mg ions in many
hosts. Following previous studies of the electrochemistry of Mg electrodes in
various non-aqueous solutions, and of a variety of intercalation electrodes, we
have now developed rechargeable Mg battery systems that show promise for
applications. The systems comprise electrolyte solutions based on Mg
organohaloaluminate salts, and Mg(x)Mo3S4 cathodes, into which Mg ions can be
intercalated reversibly, and with relatively fast kinetics. We expect that
further improvements in the energy density will make these batteries a viable
alternative to existing systems.

DOI: 10.1038/35037553 
PMID: 11048714 


212. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):720-3.

Interconversion of single and double helices formed from synthetic molecular
strands.

Berl V(1), Huc I, Khoury RG, Krische MJ, Lehn JM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Chimie Supramoléculaire, ISIS, Université Louis Pasteur,
Strasbourg, France.

Synthetic single-helical conformations are quite common, but the formation of
double helices based on recognition between the two constituent strands is
relatively rare. Known examples include duplex formation through
base-pair-specific hydrogen bonding and stacking, as found in nucleic acids and
their analogues, and polypeptides composed of amino acids with alternating L and 
D configurations. Some synthetic polymers and self-assembled fibres have
double-helical winding induced by van der Waals interactions. A third mode of
non-covalent interaction, coordination of organic ligands to metal ions, can give
rise to double, triple and quadruple helices, although in this case the assembly 
is driven by the coordination geometry of the metal and the structure of the
ligands, rather than by direct inter-strand complementarity. Here we describe a
family of oligomeric molecules with bent conformations, which exhibit dynamic
exchange between single and double molecular helices in solution, through spiral 
sliding of the synthetic oligomer strands. The bent conformations leading to the 
helical shape of the molecules result from intramolecular hydrogen bonding within
2'-pyridyl-2-pyridinecarboxamide units, with extensive intermolecular aromatic
stacking stabilizing the double-stranded helices that form through dimerization.

DOI: 10.1038/35037545 
PMID: 11048713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):718-20.

Dynamics of singularities in a constrained elastic plate.

Boudaoud A(1), Patrício P, Couder Y, Amar MB.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Physique Statistique de l'ENS, Paris, France.
arezki.boudaoud@lps.ens.fr

Large deformations of thin elastic plates usually lead to the formation of
singular structures which are either linear (ridges) or pointlike (developable
cones). These structures are thought to be generic for crumpled plates, although 
they have been investigated quantitatively only in simplified geometries.
Previous studies have also shown that a large number of singularities are
generated by successive instabilities. Here we study, experimentally and
numerically, a generic situation in which a plate is initially bent in one
direction into a cylindrical arch, then deformed in the other direction by a load
applied at its centre. This induces the generation of pairs of singularities; we 
study their position, their dynamics and the corresponding resistance of the
plate to deformation. We solve numerically the equations describing large
deformations of plates; developable cones are predicted, in quantitative
agreement with the experiments. We use geometrical arguments to predict the
observed patterns, assuming that the energy of the plate is given by the energy
of the singularities.

DOI: 10.1038/35037535 
PMID: 11048712 


214. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):711-7.

The crystal structure of DNA mismatch repair protein MutS binding to a G x T
mismatch.

Lamers MH(1), Perrakis A, Enzlin JH, Winterwerp HH, de Wind N, Sixma TK.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Carcinogenesis, Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):687, 689.

DNA mismatch repair ensures genomic integrity on DNA replication. Recognition of 
a DNA mismatch by a dimeric MutS protein initiates a cascade of reactions and
results in repair of the newly synthesized strand; however, details of the
molecular mechanism remain controversial. Here we present the crystal structure
at 2.2 A of MutS from Escherichia coli bound to a G x T mismatch. The two MutS
monomers have different conformations and form a heterodimer at the structural
level. Only one monomer recognizes the mismatch specifically and has ADP bound.
Mismatch recognition occurs by extensive minor groove interactions causing
unusual base pairing and kinking of the DNA. Nonspecific major groove DNA-binding
domains from both monomers embrace the DNA in a clamp-like structure. The
interleaved nucleotide-binding sites are located far from the DNA. Mutations in
human MutS alpha (MSH2/MSH6) that lead to hereditary predisposition for cancer,
such as hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer, can be mapped to this crystal
structure.

DOI: 10.1038/35037523 
PMID: 11048711  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):703-10.

Crystal structures of mismatch repair protein MutS and its complex with a
substrate DNA.

Obmolova G(1), Ban C, Hsieh P, Yang W.

Author information: 
(1)Genetics and Biochemistry Branch, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive
and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):687, 689.

DNA mismatch repair is critical for increasing replication fidelity in organisms 
ranging from bacteria to humans. MutS protein, a member of the ABC ATPase
superfamily, recognizes mispaired and unpaired bases in duplex DNA and initiates 
mismatch repair. Mutations in human MutS genes cause a predisposition to
hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer as well as sporadic tumours. Here we
report the crystal structures of a MutS protein and a complex of MutS with a
heteroduplex DNA containing an unpaired base. The structures reveal the general
architecture of members of the MutS family, an induced-fit mechanism of
recognition between four domains of a MutS dimer and a heteroduplex kinked at the
mismatch, a composite ATPase active site composed of residues from both MutS
subunits, and a transmitter region connecting the mismatch-binding and ATPase
domains. The crystal structures also provide a molecular framework for
understanding hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer mutations and for
postulating testable roles of MutS.

DOI: 10.1038/35037509 
PMID: 11048710  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):695-702.

A mesoscale phytoplankton bloom in the polar Southern Ocean stimulated by iron
fertilization.

Boyd PW(1), Watson AJ, Law CS, Abraham ER, Trull T, Murdoch R, Bakker DC, Bowie
AR, Buesseler KO, Chang H, Charette M, Croot P, Downing K, Frew R, Gall M,
Hadfield M, Hall J, Harvey M, Jameson G, LaRoche J, Liddicoat M, Ling R,
Maldonado MT, McKay RM, Nodder S, Pickmere S, Pridmore R, Rintoul S, Safi K,
Sutton P, Strzepek R, Tanneberger K, Turner S, Waite A, Zeldis J.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Water and Atmosphere, Centre for Chemical and Physical
Oceanography, Department of Chemistry, University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.
pboyd@alkali.otago.ac.nz

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Oct 12;407(6805):685-7.

Changes in iron supply to oceanic plankton are thought to have a significant
effect on concentrations of atmospheric carbon dioxide by altering rates of
carbon sequestration, a theory known as the 'iron hypothesis'. For this reason,
it is important to understand the response of pelagic biota to increased iron
supply. Here we report the results of a mesoscale iron fertilization experiment
in the polar Southern Ocean, where the potential to sequester iron-elevated algal
carbon is probably greatest. Increased iron supply led to elevated phytoplankton 
biomass and rates of photosynthesis in surface waters, causing a large drawdown
of carbon dioxide and macronutrients, and elevated dimethyl sulphide levels after
13 days. This drawdown was mostly due to the proliferation of diatom stocks. But 
downward export of biogenic carbon was not increased. Moreover, satellite
observations of this massive bloom 30 days later, suggest that a sufficient
proportion of the added iron was retained in surface waters. Our findings
demonstrate that iron supply controls phytoplankton growth and community
composition during summer in these polar Southern Ocean waters, but the fate of
algal carbon remains unknown and depends on the interplay between the processes
controlling export, remineralisation and timescales of water mass subduction.

DOI: 10.1038/35037500 
PMID: 11048709  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Nature. 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):651-4.

The large-scale organization of metabolic networks.

Jeong H(1), Tombor B, Albert R, Oltvai ZN, Barabási AL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, USA.

In a cell or microorganism, the processes that generate mass, energy, information
transfer and cell-fate specification are seamlessly integrated through a complex 
network of cellular constituents and reactions. However, despite the key role of 
these networks in sustaining cellular functions, their large-scale structure is
essentially unknown. Here we present a systematic comparative mathematical
analysis of the metabolic networks of 43 organisms representing all three domains
of life. We show that, despite significant variation in their individual
constituents and pathways, these metabolic networks have the same topological
scaling properties and show striking similarities to the inherent organization of
complex non-biological systems. This may indicate that metabolic organization is 
not only identical for all living organisms, but also complies with the design
principles of robust and error-tolerant scale-free networks, and may represent a 
common blueprint for the large-scale organization of interactions among all
cellular constituents.

DOI: 10.1038/35036627 
PMID: 11034217  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Nature. 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):649-51.

S-RNase uptake by compatible pollen tubes in gametophytic self-incompatibility.

Luu DT(1), Qin X, Morse D, Cappadocia M.

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, University of Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

Many flowering plants avoid inbreeding through a genetic mechanism termed
self-incompatibility. An extremely polymorphic S-locus controls the gametophytic 
self-incompatibility system that causes pollen rejection (that is, active arrest 
of pollen tube growth inside the style) when an S-allele carried by haploid
pollen matches one of the S-alleles present in the diploid style. The only known 
product of the S-locus is an S-RNase expressed in the mature style. The pollen
component to this cell-cell recognition system is unknown and current models
propose that it either acts as a gatekeeper allowing only its cognate S-RNase to 
enter the pollen tube, or as an inhibitor of non-cognate S-RNases. In the latter 
case, all S-RNases are presumed to enter pollen tubes; thus, the two models make 
diametrically opposed predictions concerning the entry of S-RNases into
compatible pollen. Here we use immunocytochemical labelling of pollen tubes
growing in styles to show accumulation of an S-RNase in the cytoplasm of all
pollen-tube haplotypes, thus providing experimental support for the inhibitor
model.

DOI: 10.1038/35036623 
PMID: 11034216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Nature. 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):645-8.

Role for the p53 homologue p73 in E2F-1-induced apoptosis.

Irwin M(1), Marin MC, Phillips AC, Seelan RS, Smith DI, Liu W, Flores ER, Tsai
KY, Jacks T, Vousden KH, Kaelin WG Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Brigham and Womens Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

The transcription factor E2F-1 induces both cell-cycle progression and, in
certain settings, apoptosis. E2F-1 uses both p53-dependent and p53-independent
pathways to kill cells. The p53-dependent pathway involves the induction by E2F-1
of the human tumour-suppressor protein p14ARF, which neutralizes HDM2 (human
homologue of MDM2) and thereby stabilizes the p53 protein. Here we show that
E2F-1 induces the transcription of the p53 homologue p73. Disruption of p73
function inhibited E2F-1-induced apoptosis in p53-defective tumour cells and in
p53-/- mouse embryo fibroblasts. We conclude that activation of p73 provides a
means for E2F-1 to induce death in the absence of p53.

DOI: 10.1038/35036614 
PMID: 11034215  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Nature. 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):642-5.

A common E2F-1 and p73 pathway mediates cell death induced by TCR activation.

Lissy NA(1), Davis PK, Irwin M, Kaelin WG, Dowdy SF.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Pathology, Washington
University School of Medicine, St Louis Missouri 63110, USA.

Strong stimulation of the T-cell receptor (TCR) on cycling peripheral T cells
causes their apoptosis by a process called TCR-activation-induced cell death
(TCR-AICD). TCR-AICD occurs from a late G1 phase cell-cycle check point
independently of the 'tumour suppressor' protein p53. Disruption of the gene for 
the E2F-1 transcription factor, an inducer of apoptosis, causes significant
increases in T-cell number and splenomegaly. Here we show that T cells undergoing
TCR-AICD induce the p53-related gene p73, another mediator of apoptosis, which is
hypermethylated in lymphomas. Introducing a dominant-negative E2F-1 protein or a 
dominant-negative p73 protein into T cells protects them from TCR-mediated
apoptosis, whereas dominant-negative E2F-2, E2F-4 or p53 does not. Furthermore,
E2F-1-null or p73-null primary T cells do not undergo TCR-mediated apoptosis
either. We conclude that TCR-AICD occurs from a late G1 cell-cycle checkpoint
that is dependent on both E2F-1 and p73 activities. These observations indicate
that, unlike p53, p73 serves to integrate receptor-mediated apoptotic stimuli.

DOI: 10.1038/35036608 
PMID: 11034214  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Nature. 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):636-42.

Memory B-cell persistence is independent of persisting immunizing antigen.

Maruyama M(1), Lam KP, Rajewsky K.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Genetics, University of Cologne, Germany.

Erratum in
    Nature 2001 Jan 18;409(6818):382.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):576-7.

Immunological memory in the antibody system is generated in T-cell-dependent
responses and carried by long-lived memory B cells that recognize antigen by
high-affinity antibodies. But it remains controversial whether these B cells
represent true 'memory' cells (that is, their maintenance is independent of the
immunizing antigen), or whether they are a product of a chronic immune response
driven by the immunizing antigen, which can be retained in the organism for
extended time periods on the surface of specialized antigen-presenting cells
(follicular dendritic cells). Cell transfer experiments provided evidence in
favour of a role of the immunizing antigen; however, analysis of memory cells in 
intact animals, which showed that these cells are mostly resting and can persist 
in the absence of detectable T-cell help or follicular dendritic cells, argued
against it. Here we show, by using a genetic switch mediated by Cre recombinase, 
that memory B cells switching their antibody specificity away from the immunizing
antigen are indeed maintained in the animal over long periods of time, similar to
cells retaining their original antigen-binding specificity.

DOI: 10.1038/35036600 
PMID: 11034213  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Nature. 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):633-6.

Skin abnormalities generated by temporally controlled RXRalpha mutations in mouse
epidermis.

Li M(1), Indra AK, Warot X, Brocard J, Messaddeq N, Kato S, Metzger D, Chambon P.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Génétique et de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire,
CNRS/INSERM/ULP, Collège de France, Illkirch.

Nuclear receptors for retinoids (RARs) and vitamin D (VDR), and for some other
ligands (TRs, PPARs and LXRs), maybe critical in the development and homeostasis 
of mammalian epidermis. It is believed that these receptors form heterodimers
with retinoid X receptors (RXRs) to act as transcriptional regulators. However,
most genetic approaches aimed at establishing their physiological functions in
the skin have been inconclusive owing either to pleiotropic effects and
redundancies between receptor isotypes in gene knockouts, or to equivocal
interpretation of dominant-negative mutant studies in transgenic mice. Moreover, 
knockout of RXRalpha, the main skin RXR isotype, is lethal in utero before skin
formation. Here we have resolved these problems by developing an efficient
technique to create spatiotemporally controlled somatic mutations in the mouse.
We used tamoxifen-inducible Cre-ER(T) recombinases to ablate RXRalpha selectively
in adult mouse keratinocytes. We show that RXRalpha has key roles in hair
cycling, probably through RXR/VDR heterodimers, and in epidermal keratinocyte
proliferation and differentiation.

DOI: 10.1038/35036595 
PMID: 11034212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Nature. 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):630-3.

Minimization of Boolean complexity in human concept learning.

Feldman J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Center for Cognitive Science, Rutgers University,
New Brunswick, New Jersey 08903, USA. jacob@ruccs.rutgers.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):572-3.

One of the unsolved problems in the field of human concept learning concerns the 
factors that determine the subjective difficulty of concepts: why are some
concepts psychologically simple and easy to learn, while others seem difficult,
complex or incoherent? This question was much studied in the 1960s but was never 
answered, and more recent characterizations of concepts as prototypes rather than
logical rules leave it unsolved. Here I investigate this question in the domain
of Boolean concepts (categories defined by logical rules). A series of
experiments measured the subjective difficulty of a wide range of logical
varieties of concepts (41 mathematically distinct types in six families--a far
wider range than has been tested previously). The data reveal a surprisingly
simple empirical 'law': the subjective difficulty of a concept is directly
proportional to its Boolean complexity (the length of the shortest logically
equivalent propositional formula)--that is, to its logical incompressibility.

DOI: 10.1038/35036586 
PMID: 11034211  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Nature. 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):626-9.

Modern freshwater microbialite analogues for ancient dendritic reef structures.

Laval B(1), Cady SL, Pollack JC, McKay CP, Bird JS, Grotzinger JP, Ford DC, Bohm 
HR.

Collaborators: Cady SL(2), McKay CP(3), Grotzinger JP(4).

Author information: 
(1)School of Engineering Science, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, British
Columbia, Canada.
(2)Portland St U, OR
(3)NASA ARC
(4)MIT, Cambridge

Microbialites are organosedimentary structures that can be constructed by a
variety of metabolically distinct taxa. Consequently, microbialite structures
abound in the fossil record, although the exact nature of the biogeochemical
processes that produced them is often unknown. One such class of ancient
calcareous structures, Epiphyton and Girvanella, appear in great abundance during
the Early Cambrian. Together with Archeocyathids, stromatolites and thrombolites,
they formed major Cambrian reef belts. To a large extent, Middle to Late Cambrian
reefs are similar to Precambrian reefs, with the exception that the latter,
including terminal Proterozoic reefs, do not contain Epiphyton or Girvanella.
Here we report the discovery in Pavilion Lake, British Columbia, Canada, of a
distinctive assemblage of freshwater calcite microbialites, some of which display
microstructures similar to the fabrics displayed by Epiphyton and Girvanella. The
morphologies of the modern microbialites vary with depth, and dendritic
microstructures of the deep water (> 30 m) mounds indicate that they may be
modern analogues for the ancient calcareous structures. These microbialites thus 
provide an opportunity to study the biogeochemical interactions that produce
fabrics similar to those of some enigmatic Early Cambrian reef structures.

DOI: 10.1038/35036579 
PMID: 11034210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Nature. 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):623-6.

A marine microbial consortium apparently mediating anaerobic oxidation of
methane.

Boetius A(1), Ravenschlag K, Schubert CJ, Rickert D, Widdel F, Gieseke A, Amann
R, Jørgensen BB, Witte U, Pfannkuche O.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Marine Microbiology, Bremen, Germany.
aboetius@mpi-bremen.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):577, 579.

A large fraction of globally produced methane is converted to CO2 by anaerobic
oxidation in marine sediments. Strong geochemical evidence for net methane
consumption in anoxic sediments is based on methane profiles, radiotracer
experiments and stable carbon isotope data. But the elusive microorganisms
mediating this reaction have not yet been isolated, and the pathway of anaerobic 
oxidation of methane is insufficiently understood. Recent data suggest that
certain archaea reverse the process of methanogenesis by interaction with
sulphate-reducing bacteria. Here we provide microscopic evidence for a structured
consortium of archaea and sulphate-reducing bacteria, which we identified by
fluorescence in situ hybridization using specific 16S rRNA-targeted
oligonucleotide probes. In this example of a structured archaeal-bacterial
symbiosis, the archaea grow in dense aggregates of about 100 cells and are
surrounded by sulphate-reducing bacteria. These aggregates were abundant in
gas-hydrate-rich sediments with extremely high rates of methane-based sulphate
reduction, and apparently mediate anaerobic oxidation of methane.

DOI: 10.1038/35036572 
PMID: 11034209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Nature. 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):620-2.

Pressure-induced changes in the compression mechanism of aluminous perovskite in 
the Earth's mantle

Brodholt JP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geological Sciences, University College London, UK.
j.brodholt@ucl.ac.uk

Although aluminium is the fifth most abundant element in the Earth's mantle, its 
effect on the physical properties of perovskite, the main mineral phase in the
lower mantle, has largely been ignored. It is becoming clear, however, that many 
properties of MgSiO3 perovskites are remarkably sensitive to small amounts of
aluminium. In particular, perovskite with only 5 wt% Al2O3 has a bulk modulus 10%
lower than that of the pure magnesian end-member. The increased compressibility
may be due to the high concentrations of oxygen vacancies required to balance the
charge of the aluminium; if so, this would have important consequences for the
mantle, as aluminous perovskites could be weaker, have lower seismic velocities
and be hosts for water. To test whether oxygen vacancies exist in aluminous
perovskites, I have calculated the compressibility of end-member defect-bearing
perovskites using ab initio methods. The results show that perovskites with
oxygen vacancies do have significantly greater compressibilities than those
without such vacancies. But the results also suggest that oxygen vacancies become
unfavourable at high pressures, in which case only the physical properties of the
shallow lower mantle would be affected by aluminium-with the deeper mantle
retaining properties similar to those of aluminium-free perovskite.

DOI: 10.1038/35036565 
PMID: 11034208 


227. Nature. 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):617-20.

Quantifying the uncertainty in forecasts of anthropogenic climate change

Allen MR(1), Stott PA, Mitchell JF, Schnur R, Delworth TL.

Author information: 
(1)Space Science and Technology Department, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory,
Chilton, Didcot, UK. m.r.allen@rl.ac.uk

Forecasts of climate change are inevitably uncertain. It is therefore essential
to quantify the risk of significant departures from the predicted response to a
given emission scenario. Previous analyses of this risk have been based either on
expert opinion, perturbation analysis of simplified climate models or the
comparison of predictions from general circulation models. Recent observed
changes that appear to be attributable to human influence provide a powerful
constraint on the uncertainties in multi-decadal forecasts. Here we assess the
range of warming rates over the coming 50 years that are consistent with the
observed near-surface temperature record as well as with the overall patterns of 
response predicted by several general circulation models. We expect global mean
temperatures in the decade 2036-46 to be 1-2.5 K warmer than in pre-industrial
times under a 'business as usual' emission scenario. This range is relatively
robust to errors in the models' climate sensitivity, rate of oceanic heat uptake 
or global response to sulphate aerosols as long as these errors are persistent
over time. Substantial changes in the current balance of greenhouse warming and
sulphate aerosol cooling would, however, increase the uncertainty. Unlike 50-year
warming rates, the final equilibrium warming after the atmospheric composition
stabilizes remains very uncertain, despite the evidence provided by the emerging 
signal.

DOI: 10.1038/35036559 
PMID: 11034207 


228. Nature. 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):613-6.

Patterning of polymer-supported metal films by microcutting

Stutzmann N(1), Tervoort TA, Bastiaansen K, Smith P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials, ETH Zentrum, Zurich, Switzerland.

The ability to micropattern materials is of great importance for manufacturing
advanced electronic, optical and mechanical devices ranging from displays to
biosensors. For this purpose a variety of methods have been developed, including 
X-ray, electron-beam and photo-lithography, microcontact printing, embossing,
micromouldings and cold welding. But these techniques are often of restricted
applicability, involve a multitude of elaborate and cumbersome processing steps, 
or require aggressive chemistry. Here we describe a simple and versatile way to
create well resolved metallic structures on polymer substrates, which is based on
solid-state embossing of metal-coated polymer films. Ductility of both the metal 
layer and the polymer substrate permits the metal to be cut into surprisingly
regular, micrometre-size structures. We illustrate the method by preparing
patterned electrically conducting structures, highly efficient infrared
polarizers and polarization-dependent colour filters.

DOI: 10.1038/35036545 
PMID: 11034206 


229. Nature. 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):611-3.

Colloidal ordering from phase separation in a liquid-crystalline continuous phase

Loudet JC(1), Barois P, Poulin P.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche Paul Pascal/CNRS, Pessac, France.

Some binary mixtures exist as a single phase at high temperatures and as two
phases at lower temperatures; rapid cooling therefore induces phase separation
that proceeds through the initial formation of small particles and subsequent
growth and coarsening. In solid and liquid media, this process leads to growing
particles with a range of sizes, which eventually separate to form a
macroscopically distinct phase. Such behaviour is of particular interest in
systems composed of an isotropic fluid and a liquid crystal, where the random
distribution of liquid-crystal droplets in an isotropic polymer matrix may give
rise to interesting electro-optical properties. Here we report that a binary
mixture consisting of an isotropic fluid and a liquid crystal forming the
continuous phase does not fully separate into two phases, but self-organizes into
highly ordered arrays of monodisperse colloidal droplet chains. We find that the 
size and spatial organization of the droplets are controlled by the orientational
elasticity of the liquid-crystal phase and the defects caused by droplets
exceeding a critical size. We expect that our approach to forming monodisperse,
spatially ordered droplets in liquid crystals will allow the controlled design of
ordered composites that may have useful rheological and optical properties.

DOI: 10.1038/35036539 
PMID: 11034205 


230. Nature. 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):608-10.

Trapping and emission of photons by a single defect in a photonic bandgap
structure

Noda S(1), Chutinan A, Imada M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electronic Science and Engineering, Kyoto University, Japan.
snoda@kuee.kyoto-u.ac.jp

By introducing artificial defects and/or light-emitters into photonic bandgap
structures, it should be possible to manipulate photons. For example, it has been
predicted that strong localization (or trapping) of photons should occur in
structures with single defects, and that the propagation of photons should be
controllable using arrays of defects. But there has been little experimental
progress in this regard, with the exception of a laser based on a single-defect
photonic crystal. Here we demonstrate photon trapping by a single defect that has
been created artificially inside a two-dimensional photonic bandgap structure.
Photons propagating through a linear waveguide are trapped by the defect, which
then emits them to free space. We envisage that this phenomenon may be used in
ultra-small optical devices whose function is to selectively drop (or add)
photons with various energies from (or to) optical communication traffic. More
generally, our work should facilitate the development of all-optical circuits
incorporating photonic bandgap waveguides and resonators.

DOI: 10.1038/35036532 
PMID: 11034204 


231. Nature. 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):606-8.

Efficient delivery of meteorites to the Earth from a wide range of asteroid
parent bodies

Vokrouhlicky D(1), Farinella P.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Astronomy, Charles University, Prague, Czech Republic.
vokrouhl@mbox.cesnet.cz

Almost all meteorites come from asteroids, but identifying their specific parent 
bodies, and modelling their transport to the Earth, has proved to be difficult.
The usual model of delivery through orbital resonances with the major planets has
recently been shown to deplete the supply of meteorites much too rapidly to
explain either the observed flux at the Earth, or the length of time the
meteorites have spent in space (as measured by cosmic-ray exposure ages).
Independently, it has been found that a force arising from anisotropically
emitted thermal radiation from asteroidal fragments (the 'Yarkovsky effect')
influences the fragments' orbits in important ways. Here we report the results of
a detailed model for the transport of meteorites to the Earth, which includes the
Yarkovsky effect and collisional evolution of the asteroidal fragments. We find
that the Yarkovsky effect significantly increases the efficiency of the delivery 
of meteorites to the Earth, while at the same time allowing a much wider range of
asteroids to contribute to the flux of meteorites. Our model also reproduces the 
observed distribution of cosmic-ray exposure ages of stony meteorites.

DOI: 10.1038/35036528 
PMID: 11034203 


232. Nature. 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):599-605.

Structural determinants of water permeation through aquaporin-1.

Murata K(1), Mitsuoka K, Hirai T, Walz T, Agre P, Heymann JB, Engel A, Fujiyoshi 
Y.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Physiological Sciences, Okazaki, Japan.

Human red cell AQP1 is the first functionally defined member of the aquaporin
family of membrane water channels. Here we describe an atomic model of AQP1 at
3.8A resolution from electron crystallographic data. Multiple highly conserved
amino-acid residues stabilize the novel fold of AQP1. The aqueous pathway is
lined with conserved hydrophobic residues that permit rapid water transport,
whereas the water selectivity is due to a constriction of the pore diameter to
about 3 A over a span of one residue. The atomic model provides a possible
molecular explanation to a longstanding puzzle in physiology-how membranes can be
freely permeable to water but impermeable to protons.

DOI: 10.1038/35036519 
PMID: 11034202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Nature. 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):592-8.

Id2 is a retinoblastoma protein target and mediates signalling by Myc
oncoproteins.

Lasorella A(1), Noseda M, Beyna M, Yokota Y, Iavarone A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New York 
10461, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature 2000 Nov 23;408(6811):498.

In mammalian cells, Id proteins coordinate proliferation and differentiation. Id2
is a dominant-negative antagonist of basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors
and proteins of the retinoblastoma (Rb) family. Here we show that Id2-Rb double
knockout embryos survive to term with minimal or no defects in neurogenesis and
haematopoiesis, but they die at birth from severe reduction of muscle tissue. In 
neuroblastoma, an embryonal tumour derived from the neural crest, Id2 is
overexpressed in cells carrying extra copies of the N-myc gene. In these cells,
Id2 is in molar excess of the active form of Rb. The overexpression of Id2
results from transcriptional activation by oncoproteins of the Myc family.
Cell-cycle progression induced by Myc oncoproteins requires inactivation of Rb by
Id2. Thus, a dual connection links Id2 and Rb: during normal cell-cycle, Rb
prohibits the action of Id2 on its natural targets, but oncogenic activation of
the Myc-Id2 transcriptional pathway overrides the tumour-suppressor function of
Rb.

DOI: 10.1038/35036504 
PMID: 11034201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Nature. 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):585-91.

Phytochromes and light signal perception by plants--an emerging synthesis.

Smith H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Leicester, UK. has@le.ac.uk

For plants, the sensing of light in the environment is as important as vision is 
for animals. Fluctuations in light can be crucial to competition and survival.
One way plants sense light is through the phytochromes, a small family of diverse
photochromic protein photoreceptors whose origins have been traced to the
photosynthetic prokaryotes. During their evolution, the phytochromes have
acquired sophisticated mechanisms to monitor light. Recent advances in
understanding the molecular mechanisms of phytochromes and their significance to 
evolutionary biology make possible an interim synthesis of this rapidly advancing
branch of photobiology.

DOI: 10.1038/35036500 
PMID: 11034200  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):538-41.

Interaction of oestrogen receptor with the regulatory subunit of
phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase.

Simoncini T(1), Hafezi-Moghadam A, Brazil DP, Ley K, Chin WW, Liao JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham & Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Oestrogen produces diverse biological effects through binding to the oestrogen
receptor (ER). The ER is a steroid hormone nuclear receptor, which, when bound to
oestrogen, modulates the transcriptional activity of target genes. Controversy
exists, however, concerning whether ER has a role outside the nucleus,
particularly in mediating the cardiovascular protective effects of oestrogen.
Here we show that the ER isoform, ER alpha, binds in a ligand-dependent manner to
the p85alpha regulatory subunit of phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase (PI(3)K).
Stimulation with oestrogen increases ER alpha-associated PI(3)K activity, leading
to the activation of protein kinase B/Akt and endothelial nitric oxide synthase
(eNOS). Recruitment and activation of PI(3)K by ligand-bound ER alpha are
independent of gene transcription, do not involve phosphotyrosine adapter
molecules or src-homology domains of p85alpha, and extend to other steroid
hormone receptors. Mice treated with oestrogen show increased eNOS activity and
decreased vascular leukocyte accumulation after ischaemia and reperfusion injury.
This vascular protective effect of oestrogen was abolished in the presence of
PI(3)K or eNOS inhibitors. Our findings define a physiologically important
non-nuclear oestrogen-signalling pathway involving the direct interaction of ER
alpha with PI(3)K.

DOI: 10.1038/35035131 
PMCID: PMC2670482
PMID: 11029009  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):535-8.

An LDL-receptor-related protein mediates Wnt signalling in mice.

Pinson KI(1), Brennan J, Monkley S, Avery BJ, Skarnes WC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley
94720, USA.

Wnt genes comprise a large family of secreted polypeptides that are expressed in 
spatially and tissue-restricted patterns during vertebrate embryonic development.
Mutational analysis in mice has shown the importance of Wnts in controlling
diverse developmental processes such as patterning of the body axis, central
nervous system and limbs, and the regulation of inductive events during
organogenesis. Although many components of the Wnt signalling pathway have been
identified, little is known about how Wnts and their cognate Frizzled receptors
signal to downstream effector molecules. Here we present evidence that a new
member of the low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-receptor-related protein family, LRP6
(ref. 3), is critical for Wnt signalling in mice. Embryos homozygous for an
insertion mutation in the LRP6 gene exhibit developmental defects that are a
striking composite of those caused by mutations in individual Wnt genes.
Furthermore, we show a genetic enhancement of a Wnt mutant phenotype in mice
lacking one functional copy of LRP6. Together, our results support a broad role
for LRP6 in the transduction of several Wnt signals in mammals.

DOI: 10.1038/35035124 
PMID: 11029008  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):530-5.

LDL-receptor-related proteins in Wnt signal transduction.

Tamai K(1), Semenov M, Kato Y, Spokony R, Liu C, Katsuyama Y, Hess F,
Saint-Jeannet JP, He X.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuroscience, Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.

The Wnt family of secreted signalling molecules are essential in embryo
development and tumour formation. The Frizzled (Fz) family of serpentine
receptors function as Wnt receptors, but how Fz proteins transduce signalling is 
not understood. In Drosophila, arrow phenocopies the wingless (DWnt-1) phenotype,
and encodes a transmembrane protein that is homologous to two members of the
mammalian low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR)-related protein (LRP) family,
LRP5 and LRP6 (refs 12-15). Here we report that LRP6 functions as a co-receptor
for Wnt signal transduction. In Xenopus embryos, LRP6 activated Wnt-Fz
signalling, and induced Wnt responsive genes, dorsal axis duplication and neural 
crest formation. An LRP6 mutant lacking the carboxyl intracellular domain blocked
signalling by Wnt or Wnt-Fz, but not by Dishevelled or beta-catenin, and
inhibited neural crest development. The extracellular domain of LRP6 bound Wnt-1 
and associated with Fz in a Wnt-dependent manner. Our results indicate that LRP6 
may be a component of the Wnt receptor complex.

DOI: 10.1038/35035117 
PMID: 11029007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):527-30.

arrow encodes an LDL-receptor-related protein essential for Wingless signalling.

Wehrli M(1), Dougan ST, Caldwell K, O'Keefe L, Schwartz S, Vaizel-Ohayon D,
Schejter E, Tomlinson A, DiNardo S.

Author information: 
(1)University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia 19104, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature 2001 Apr 12;410(6830):847.

The Wnt family of secreted molecules functions in cell-fate determination and
morphogenesis during development in both vertebrates and invertebrates (reviewed 
in ref. 1). Drosophila Wingless is a founding member of this family, and many
components of its signal transduction cascade have been identified, including the
Frizzled class of receptor. But the mechanism by which the Wingless signal is
received and transduced across the membrane is not completely understood. Here we
describe a gene that is necessary for all Wingless signalling events in
Drosophila. We show that arrow gene function is essential in cells receiving
Wingless input and that it acts upstream of Dishevelled. arrow encodes a
single-pass transmembrane protein, indicating that it may be part of a receptor
complex with Frizzled class proteins. Arrow is a low-density lipoprotein
(LDL)-receptor-related protein (LRP), strikingly homologous to murine and human
LRP5 and LRP6. Thus, our data suggests a new and conserved function for this LRP 
subfamily in Wingless/Wnt signal reception.

DOI: 10.1038/35035110 
PMID: 11029006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):523-6.

Immune control of HIV-1 after early treatment of acute infection.

Rosenberg ES(1), Altfeld M, Poon SH, Phillips MN, Wilkes BM, Eldridge RL, Robbins
GK, D'Aquila RT, Goulder PJ, Walker BD.

Author information: 
(1)Partners AIDS Research Center and Infectious Disease Division, Massachusetts
General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston 02114, USA.

Virus-specific T-helper cells are considered critical for the control of chronic 
viral infections. Successful treatment of acute HIV-1 infection leads to
augmentation of these responses, but whether this enhances immune control has not
been determined. We administered one or two supervised treatment interruptions to
eight subjects with treated acute infection, with the plan to restart therapy if 
viral load exceeded 5,000 copies of HIV-1 RNA per millilitre of plasma (the level
at which therapy has been typically recommended) for three consecutive weeks, or 
50,000 RNA copies per ml at one time. Here we show that, despite rebound in
viraemia, all subjects were able to achieve at least a transient steady state off
therapy with viral load below 5,000 RNA copies per ml. At present, five out of
eight subjects remain off therapy with viral loads of less than 500 RNA copies
per ml plasma after a median 6.5 months (range 5-8.7 months). We observed
increased virus-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes and maintained T-helper-cell
responses in all. Our data indicate that functional immune responses can be
augmented in a chronic viral infection, and provide rationale for immunotherapy
in HIV-1 infection.

DOI: 10.1038/35035103 
PMID: 11029005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):520-3.

A vertebrate globin expressed in the brain.

Burmester T(1), Weich B, Reinhardt S, Hankeln T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Germany.
burmeste@mail.uni-mainz.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):461-2.

Haemoglobins and myoglobins constitute related protein families that function in 
oxygen transport and storage in humans and other vertebrates. Here we report the 
identification of a third globin type in man and mouse. This protein is
predominantly expressed in the brain, and therefore we have called it
neuroglobin. Mouse neuroglobin is a monomer with a high oxygen affinity (half
saturation pressure, P50 approximately 2 torr). Analogous to myoglobin,
neuroglobin may increase the availability of oxygen to brain tissue. The human
neuroglobin gene (NGB), located on chromosome 14q24, has a unique exon-intron
structure. Neuroglobin represents a distinct protein family that diverged early
in metazoan evolution, probably before the Protostomia/Deuterostomia split.

DOI: 10.1038/35035093 
PMID: 11029004  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


241. Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):516-20.

An SNP map of human chromosome 22.

Mullikin JC(1), Hunt SE, Cole CG, Mortimore BJ, Rice CM, Burton J, Matthews LH,
Pavitt R, Plumb RW, Sims SK, Ainscough RM, Attwood J, Bailey JM, Barlow K,
Bruskiewich RM, Butcher PN, Carter NP, Chen Y, Clee CM, Coggill PC, Davies J,
Davies RM, Dawson E, Francis MD, Joy AA, Lamble RG, Langford CF, Macarthy J, Mall
V, Moreland A, Overton-Larty EK, Ross MT, Smith LC, Steward CA, Sulston JE,
Tinsley EJ, Turney KJ, Willey DL, Wilson GD, McMurray AA, Dunham I, Rogers J,
Bentley DR.

Author information: 
(1)The Sanger Centre, Hinxton, Cambridge, UK.

The human genome sequence will provide a reference for measuring DNA sequence
variation in human populations. Sequence variants are responsible for the genetic
component of individuality, including complex characteristics such as disease
susceptibility and drug response. Most sequence variants are single nucleotide
polymorphisms (SNPs), where two alternate bases occur at one position. Comparison
of any two genomes reveals around 1 SNP per kilobase. A sufficiently dense map of
SNPs would allow the detection of sequence variants responsible for particular
characteristics on the basis that they are associated with a specific SNP allele.
Here we have evaluated large-scale sequencing approaches to obtaining SNPs, and
have constructed a map of 2,730 SNPs on human chromosome 22. Most of the SNPs are
within 25 kilobases of a transcribed exon, and are valuable for association
studies. We have scaled up the process, detecting over 65,000 SNPs in the genome 
as part of The SNP Consortium programme, which is on target to build a map of 1
SNP every 5 kilobases that is integrated with the human genome sequence and that 
is freely available in the public domain.

DOI: 10.1038/35035089 
PMID: 11029003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):513-6.

An SNP map of the human genome generated by reduced representation shotgun
sequencing.

Altshuler D(1), Pollara VJ, Cowles CR, Van Etten WJ, Baldwin J, Linton L, Lander 
ES.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute/MIT Center for Genome Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02142, USA.

Most genomic variation is attributable to single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs),
which therefore offer the highest resolution for tracking disease genes and
population history. It has been proposed that a dense map of 30,000-500,000 SNPs 
can be used to scan the human genome for haplotypes associated with common
diseases. Here we describe a simple but powerful method, called reduced
representation shotgun (RRS) sequencing, for creating SNP maps. RRS re-samples
specific subsets of the genome from several individuals, and compares the
resulting sequences using a highly accurate SNP detection algorithm. The method
can be extended by alignment to available genome sequence, increasing the yield
of SNPs and providing map positions. These methods are being used by The SNP
Consortium, an international collaboration of academic centres, pharmaceutical
companies and a private foundation, to discover and release at least 300,000
human SNPs. We have discovered 47,172 human SNPs by RRS, and in total the
Consortium has identified 148,459 SNPs. More broadly, RRS facilitates the rapid, 
inexpensive construction of SNP maps in biomedically and agriculturally important
species. SNPs discovered by RRS also offer unique advantages for large-scale
genotyping.

DOI: 10.1038/35035083 
PMID: 11029002  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):508-13.

The genome sequence of the thermoacidophilic scavenger Thermoplasma acidophilum.

Ruepp A(1), Graml W, Santos-Martinez ML, Koretke KK, Volker C, Mewes HW, Frishman
D, Stocker S, Lupas AN, Baumeister W.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Biochemie, Martinsried, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):466-7.

Thermoplasma acidophilum is a thermoacidophilic archaeon that thrives at 59
degrees C and pH 2, which was isolated from self-heating coal refuse piles and
solfatara fields. Species of the genus Thermoplasma do not possess a rigid cell
wall, but are only delimited by a plasma membrane. Many macromolecular assemblies
from Thermoplasma, primarily proteases and chaperones, have been pivotal in
elucidating the structure and function of their more complex eukaryotic
homologues. Our interest in protein folding and degradation led us to seek a more
complete representation of the proteins involved in these pathways by determining
the genome sequence of the organism. Here we have sequenced the
1,564,905-base-pair genome in just 7,855 sequencing reactions by using a new
strategy. The 1,509 open reading frames identify Thermoplasma as a typical
euryarchaeon with a substantial complement of bacteria-related genes; however,
evidence indicates that there has been much lateral gene transfer between
Thermoplasma and Sulfolobus solfataricus, a phylogenetically distant crenarchaeon
inhabiting the same environment. At least 252 open reading frames, including a
complete protein degradation pathway and various transport proteins, resemble
Sulfolobus proteins most closely.

DOI: 10.1038/35035069 
PMID: 11029001  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):506-8.

Evolutionary instability of ectomycorrhizal symbioses in basidiomycetes.

Hibbett DS(1), Gilbert LB, Donoghue MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard University Herbaria, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
dhibbett@black.clarku.edu

Mycorrhizae, the symbiotic associations of plant roots and fungal hyphae, are
classic examples of mutualisms. In these ecologically important associations, the
fungi derive photosynthetic sugars from their plant hosts, which in turn benefit 
from fungus-mediated uptake of mineral nutrients. Early views on the evolution of
symbioses suggested that all long-term, intimate associations tend to evolve
toward mutualism. Following this principle, it has been suggested that
mycorrhizal symbioses are the stable derivatives of ancestral antagonistic
interactions involving plant parasitic fungi. Alternatively, mutualisms have been
interpreted as inherently unstable reciprocal parasitisms, which can be disrupted
by conflicts of interest among the partners. To determine the number of origins
of mycorrhizae, and to assess their evolutionary stability, it is necessary to
understand the phylogenetic relationships of the taxa involved. Here we present a
broad phylogenetic analysis of mycorrhizal and free-living homobasidiomycetes
(mushroom-forming fungi). Our results indicate that mycorrhizal symbionts with
diverse plant hosts have evolved repeatedly from saprotrophic precursors, but
also that there have been multiple reversals to a free-living condition. These
findings suggest that mycorrhizae are unstable, evolutionarily dynamic
associations.

DOI: 10.1038/35035065 
PMID: 11029000  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):502-6.

Transient high temperatures in mantle plume heads inferred from magnesian
olivines in Phanerozoic picrites.

Thompson RN(1), Gibson SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geological Sciences, University of Durham, UK.
r.n.thompson@durham.ac.uk

Both scaled laboratory experiments and numerical models of terrestrial mantle
plumes produce 'balloon-on-a-string' structures, with a bulbous head followed by 
a stem-like tail. Discussions have focused on whether their initial upwelling
heads are hotter than the tails or cooler, as a result of entrainment of ambient 
mantle during ascent, and also on whether initial plume upwelling is a newtonian 
or non-newtonian process. The temperature of the mantle delivered to the base of 
the lithosphere is a critical parameter in such debates. Dry continental magmas
can normally contribute little to this topic because their hottest (ultramafic)
examples can be expected to be trapped, owing to their density, beneath the Moho.
Here we report a rare case in which olivine (with 93.3% forsterite; Mg2SiO4)
phenocrysts, precipitated from an unerupted komatiitic melt (approximately 24%
MgO) of the Tristan mantle plume head 132 Myr ago, were carried to upper-crust
levels in northwest Namibia by less Mg-rich (9.6-18.5% MgO) magmas. We infer that
the hidden melt, generated when the plume impinged on the base of the
lithosphere, originated in the mantle with a potential temperature of
approximately 1,700 degrees C. This is approximately 400 degrees C above ambient 
and much hotter than the temperatures previously calculated for steady-state
Phanerozoic mantle plumes. Published data show that the same conclusion can be
reached for the initial Iceland and Galapagos plumes.

DOI: 10.1038/35035058 
PMID: 11028999 


246. Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):499-502.

Origins of sulphate in Antarctic dry-valley soils as deduced from anomalous 17O
compositions.

Bao H(1), Campbell DA, Bockheim JG, Thiemens MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry, University of California San Diego, La
Jolla 92093-0356, USA. hbao@chem.ucsd.edu

The dry valleys of Antarctica are some of the oldest terrestrial surfaces on the 
Earth. Despite much study of soil weathering and development, ecosystem dynamics 
and the occurrence of life in these extreme environments, the reasons behind the 
exceptionally high salt content of the dry-valley soils have remained uncertain. 
In particular, the origins of sulphate are still controversial; proposed sources 
include wind-blown sea salt, chemical weatherings, marine incursion, hydrothermal
processes and oxidation of biogenic sulphur in the atmosphere. Here we report
measurements of delta18O and delta17O values of sulphates from a range of
dry-valley soils. These sulphates all have a large positive anomaly of 17O, of up
to 3.4/1000. This suggests that Antarctic sulphate comes not just from sea salt
(which has no anomaly of 17O) but also from the atmospheric oxidation of reduced 
gaseous sulphur compounds, the only known process that can generate the observed 
17O anomaly. This source is more prominent in high inland soils, suggesting that 
the distributions of sulphate are largely explained by differences in particle
size and transport mode which exist between sea-salt aerosols and aerosols formed
from biogenic sulphur emission.

DOI: 10.1038/35035054 
PMID: 11028998 


247. Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):496-9.

Nano-sized transition-metal oxides as negative-electrode materials for
lithium-ion batteries.

Poizot P(1), Laruelle S, Grugeon S, Dupont L, Tarascon JM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Réactivité et Chimie des Solides, Université de Picardie Jules 
Verne, CNRS UPRES A 6007, Amiens, France.

Rechargeable solid-state batteries have long been considered an attractive power 
source for a wide variety of applications, and in particular, lithium-ion
batteries are emerging as the technology of choice for portable electronics. One 
of the main challenges in the design of these batteries is to ensure that the
electrodes maintain their integrity over many discharge-recharge cycles. Although
promising electrode systems have recently been proposed, their lifespans are
limited by Li-alloying agglomeration or the growth of passivation layers, which
prevent the fully reversible insertion of Li ions into the negative electrodes.
Here we report that electrodes made of nanoparticles of transition-metal oxides
(MO, where M is Co, Ni, Cu or Fe) demonstrate electrochemical capacities of 700
mA h g(-1), with 100% capacity retention for up to 100 cycles and high recharging
rates. The mechanism of Li reactivity differs from the classical Li
insertion/deinsertion or Li-alloying processes, and involves the formation and
decomposition of Li2O, accompanying the reduction and oxidation of metal
nanoparticles (in the range 1-5 nanometres) respectively. We expect that the use 
of transition-metal nanoparticles to enhance surface electrochemical reactivity
will lead to further improvements in the performance of lithium-ion batteries.

DOI: 10.1038/35035045 
PMID: 11028997 


248. Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):493-6.

Logical computation using algorithmic self-assembly of DNA triple-crossover
molecules.

Mao C(1), LaBean TH, Relf JH, Seeman NC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, New York University, New York 10003, USA.

Recent work has demonstrated the self-assembly of designed periodic
two-dimensional arrays composed of DNA tiles, in which the intermolecular
contacts are directed by 'sticky' ends. In a mathematical context, aperiodic
mosaics may be formed by the self-assembly of 'Wang' tiles, a process that
emulates the operation of a Turing machine. Macroscopic self-assembly has been
used to perform computations; there is also a logical equivalence between DNA
sticky ends and Wang tile edges. This suggests that the self-assembly of
DNA-based tiles could be used to perform DNA-based computation. Algorithmic
aperiodic self-assembly requires greater fidelity than periodic self-assembly,
because correct tiles must compete with partially correct tiles. Here we report a
one-dimensional algorithmic self-assembly of DNA triple-crossover molecules that 
can be used to execute four steps of a logical (cumulative XOR) operation on a
string of binary bits.

DOI: 10.1038/35035038 
PMID: 11028996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):491-3.

Single photons on demand from a single molecule at room temperature.

Lounis B(1), Moerner WE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Stanford University, California 94305-5080, USA.

The generation of non-classical states of light is of fundamental scientific and 
technological interest. For example, 'squeezed' states enable measurements to be 
performed at lower noise levels than possible using classical light.
Deterministic (or triggered) single-photon sources exhibit non-classical
behaviour in that they emit, with a high degree of certainty, just one photon at 
a user-specified time. (In contrast, a classical source such as an attenuated
pulsed laser emits photons according to Poisson statistics.) A deterministic
source of single photons could find applications in quantum information
processing, quantum cryptography and certain quantum computation problems. Here
we realize a controllable source of single photons using optical pumping of a
single molecule in a solid. Triggered single photons are produced at a high rate,
whereas the probability of simultaneous emission of two photons is nearly zero--a
useful property for secure quantum cryptography. Our approach is characterized by
simplicity, room temperature operation and improved performance compared to other
triggered sources of single photons.

DOI: 10.1038/35035032 
PMID: 11028995 


250. Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):487-90.

Simulating dynamical features of escape panic.

Helbing D(1), Farkas I, Vicsek T.

Author information: 
(1)Collegium Budapest-Institute for Advanced Study, Hungary.
helbing@trafficforum.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):465-6.

One of the most disastrous forms of collective human behaviour is the kind of
crowd stampede induced by panic, often leading to fatalities as people are
crushed or trampled. Sometimes this behaviour is triggered in life-threatening
situations such as fires in crowded buildings; at other times, stampedes can
arise during the rush for seats or seemingly without cause. Although engineers
are finding ways to alleviate the scale of such disasters, their frequency seems 
to be increasing with the number and size of mass events. But systematic studies 
of panic behaviour and quantitative theories capable of predicting such crowd
dynamics are rare. Here we use a model of pedestrian behaviour to investigate the
mechanisms of (and preconditions for) panic and jamming by uncoordinated motion
in crowds. Our simulations suggest practical ways to prevent dangerous crowd
pressures. Moreover, we find an optimal strategy for escape from a smoke-filled
room, involving a mixture of individualistic behaviour and collective 'herding'
instinct.

DOI: 10.1038/35035023 
PMID: 11028994  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):485-7.

Direct detection of pulsations of the Cepheid star zeta Gem and an independent
calibration of the period-luminosity relation.

Lane BF(1), Kuchner MJ, Boden AF, Creech-Eakman M, Kulkarni SR.

Author information: 
(1)Palomar Observatory, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, USA.
bfl@astro.caltech.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):462-3.

Cepheids are a class of variable (pulsating) stars whose absolute luminosities
are related in a simple manner to their pulsational periods. By measuring the
period and using the 'period-luminosity' relationship, astronomers can use the
observed visual brightness to determine the distance to the star. Because these
stars are very luminous, they can be observed in other galaxies, and therefore
can be used to help determine the expansion rate of the Universe (the Hubble
constant). Calibration of the period-luminosity relation is a necessary first
step, but the small number of sufficiently nearby Cepheids has forced the use of 
a number of indirect means, with associated systematic uncertainties. Here we
present a distance to the Cepheid zeta Geminorum, determined using a direct
measurement (by an optical interferometer) of its changes in diameter as it
pulsates. Within our uncertainty of 15 per cent, our distance is in agreement
with previous indirect determinations. Planned improvements to the instrument
will allow us to calibrate directly the period-luminosity relation to better than
a few per cent.

DOI: 10.1038/35035015 
PMID: 11028993 


252. Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):477-83.

A yeast prion provides a mechanism for genetic variation and phenotypic
diversity.

True HL(1), Lindquist SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics and Cell Biology, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, The University of Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):457-8.
    Nature. 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):17.

A major enigma in evolutionary biology is that new forms or functions often
require the concerted effects of several independent genetic changes. It is
unclear how such changes might accumulate when they are likely to be deleterious 
individually and be lost by selective pressure. The Saccharomyces cerevisiae
prion [PSI+] is an epigenetic modifier of the fidelity of translation
termination, but its impact on yeast biology has been unclear. Here we show that 
[PSI+] provides the means to uncover hidden genetic variation and produce new
heritable phenotypes. Moreover, in each of the seven genetic backgrounds tested, 
the constellation of phenotypes produced was unique. We propose that the
epigenetic and metastable nature of [PSI+] inheritance allows yeast cells to
exploit pre-existing genetic variation to thrive in fluctuating environments.
Further, the capacity of [PSI+] to convert previously neutral genetic variation
to a non-neutral state may facilitate the evolution of new traits.

DOI: 10.1038/35035005 
PMID: 11028992  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Nature. 2000 Sep 28;407(6803):471-5.

RNA polymerase II elongation through chromatin.

Orphanides G(1), Reinberg D.

Author information: 
(1)Zeneca Central Toxicology Laboratory, Alderley Park, Cheshire, UK.

The machinery that transcribes protein-coding genes in eukaryotic cells must
contend with repressive chromatin structures in order to find its target DNA
sequences. Diverse arrays of proteins modify the structure of chromatin at gene
promoters to help transcriptional regulatory proteins access their DNA
recognition sites. The way in which disruption of chromatin structure at a
promoter is transmitted through a whole gene has not been defined. Recent
breakthroughs suggest that the passage of an RNA polymerase through a gene is
coupled to mechanisms that propagate the breakdown of chromatin.

DOI: 10.1038/35035000 
PMID: 11028991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):409-13.

Image reconstructions of helical assemblies of the HIV-1 CA protein.

Li S(1), Hill CP, Sundquist WI, Finch JT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Utah, Salt Lake City 84132, USA.

The type 1 human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) contains a conical capsid
comprising approximately 1,500 CA protein subunits, which organizes the viral RNA
genome for uncoating and replication in a new host cell. In vitro, CA
spontaneously assembles into helical tubes and cones that resemble authentic
viral capsids. Here we describe electron cryo-microscopy and image
reconstructions of CA tubes from six different helical families. In spite of
their polymorphism, all tubes are composed of hexameric rings of CA arranged with
approximate local p6 lattice symmetry. Crystal structures of the two CA domains
were 'docked' into the reconstructed density, which showed that the
amino-terminal domains form the hexameric rings and the carboxy-terminal
dimerization domains connect each ring to six neighbours. We propose a molecular 
model for the HIV-1 capsid that follows the principles of a fullerene cone, in
which the body of the cone is composed of curved hexagonal arrays of CA rings and
the ends are closed by inclusion of 12 pentagonal 'defects'.

DOI: 10.1038/35030177 
PMID: 11014200  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):405-9.

Chromodomains are protein-RNA interaction modules.

Akhtar A(1), Zink D, Becker PB.

Author information: 
(1)Adolf Butenandt-Institut, Molekularbiologie, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität,
München, Germany.

In Drosophila, compensation for the reduced dosage of genes located on the single
male X chromosome involves doubling their expression in relation to their
counterparts on female X chromosomes. Dosage compensation is an epigenetic
process involving the specific acetylation of histone H4 at lysine 16 by the
histone acetyltransferase MOF. Although MOF is expressed in both sexes, it only
associates with the X chromosome in males. Its absence causes male-specific
lethality. MOF is part of a chromosome-associated complex comprising
male-specific lethal (MSL) proteins and at least one non-coding roX RNA. How MOF 
is integrated into the dosage compensation complex is unknown. Here we show that 
association of MOF with the male X chromosome depends on its interaction with
RNA. MOF specifically binds through its chromodomain to roX2 RNA in vivo. In
vitro analyses of the MOF and MSL-3 chromodomains indicate that these
chromodomains may function as RNA interaction modules. Their interaction with
non-coding RNA may target regulators to specific chromosomal sites.

DOI: 10.1038/35030169 
PMID: 11014199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):401-5.

The protein Aly links pre-messenger-RNA splicing to nuclear export in metazoans.

Zhou Z(1), Luo MJ, Straesser K, Katahira J, Hurt E, Reed R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

In metazoans, most pre-messenger RNAs contain introns that are removed by
splicing. The spliced mRNAs are then exported to the cytoplasm. Recent studies
showed that splicing promotes efficient mRNA export, but the mechanism for
coupling these two processes is not known. Here we show that Aly, the metazoan
homologue of the yeast mRNA export factor Yralp (ref. 2), is recruited to
messenger ribonucleoprotein (mRNP) complexes generated by splicing. In contrast, 
Aly does not associate with mRNPs assembled on identical mRNAs that already have 
no introns or with heterogenous nuclear RNP (hnRNP) complexes. Aly is recruited
during spliceosome assembly, and then becomes tightly associated with the spliced
mRNP. Aly shuttles between the nucleus and cytoplasm, and excess recombinant Aly 
increases both the rate and efficiency of mRNA export in vivo. Consistent with
its splicing-dependent recruitment, Aly co-localizes with splicing factors in the
nucleus. We conclude that splicing is required for efficient mRNA export as a
result of coupling between the splicing and the mRNA export machineries.

DOI: 10.1038/35030160 
PMID: 11014198  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):395-401.

A chemical switch for inhibitor-sensitive alleles of any protein kinase.

Bishop AC(1), Ubersax JA, Petsch DT, Matheos DP, Gray NS, Blethrow J, Shimizu E, 
Tsien JZ, Schultz PG, Rose MD, Wood JL, Morgan DO, Shokat KM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Princeton University, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Protein kinases have proved to be largely resistant to the design of highly
specific inhibitors, even with the aid of combinatorial chemistry. The lack of
these reagents has complicated efforts to assign specific signalling roles to
individual kinases. Here we describe a chemical genetic strategy for sensitizing 
protein kinases to cell-permeable molecules that do not inhibit wild-type
kinases. From two inhibitor scaffolds, we have identified potent and selective
inhibitors for sensitized kinases from five distinct subfamilies. Tyrosine and
serine/threonine kinases are equally amenable to this approach. We have analysed 
a budding yeast strain carrying an inhibitor-sensitive form of the
cyclin-dependent kinase Cdc28 (CDK1) in place of the wild-type protein. Specific 
inhibition of Cdc28 in vivo caused a pre-mitotic cell-cycle arrest that is
distinct from the G1 arrest typically observed in temperature-sensitive cdc28
mutants. The mutation that confers inhibitor-sensitivity is easily identifiable
from primary sequence alignments. Thus, this approach can be used to
systematically generate conditional alleles of protein kinases, allowing for
rapid functional characterization of members of this important gene family.

DOI: 10.1038/35030148 
PMID: 11014197  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):390-5.

Superoxide dismutase as a target for the selective killing of cancer cells.

Huang P(1), Feng L, Oldham EA, Keating MJ, Plunkett W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Therapeutics, The University of Texas M.D. Anderson
Cancer Center, Houston 77030, USA. phuang@notes.mdacc.tmc.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):309-11.

Superoxide dismutases (SOD) are essential enzymes that eliminate superoxide
radical (O2-) and thus protect cells from damage induced by free radicals. The
active O2- production and low SOD activity in cancer cells may render the
malignant cells highly dependent on SOD for survival and sensitive to inhibition 
of SOD. Here we report that certain oestrogen derivatives selectively kill human 
leukaemia cells but not normal lymphocytes. Using complementary DNA microarray
and biochemical approaches, we identify SOD as a target of this drug action and
show that chemical modifications at the 2-carbon (2-OH, 2-OCH3) of the
derivatives are essential for SOD inhibition and for apoptosis induction.
Inhibition of SOD causes accumulation of cellular O2- and leads to
free-radical-mediated damage to mitochondrial membranes, the release of
cytochrome c from mitochondria and apoptosis of the cancer cells. Our results
indicate that targeting SOD may be a promising approach to the selective killing 
of cancer cells, and that mechanism-based combinations of SOD inhibitors with
free-radical-producing agents may have clinical applications.

DOI: 10.1038/35030140 
PMID: 11014196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):386-90.

Tat-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes select for SIV escape variants during
resolution of primary viraemia.

Allen TM(1), O'Connor DH, Jing P, Dzuris JL, Mothé BR, Vogel TU, Dunphy E, Liebl 
ME, Emerson C, Wilson N, Kunstman KJ, Wang X, Allison DB, Hughes AL, Desrosiers
RC, Altman JD, Wolinsky SM, Sette A, Watkins DI.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53715-1299, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):313-4.

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)
infections are characterized by early peaks of viraemia that decline as strong
cellular immune responses develop. Although it has been shown that virus-specific
CD8-positive cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) exert selective pressure during HIV
and SIV infection, the data have been controversial. Here we show that
Tat-specific CD8-positive T-lymphocyte responses select for new viral escape
variants during the acute phase of infection. We sequenced the entire virus
immediately after the acute phase, and found that amino-acid replacements
accumulated primarily in Tat CTL epitopes. This implies that Tat-specific CTLs
may be significantly involved in controlling wild-type virus replication, and
suggests that responses against viral proteins that are expressed early during
the viral life cycle might be attractive targets for HIV vaccine development.

DOI: 10.1038/35030124 
PMID: 11014195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):383-6.

Cell-fate conversion of lymphoid-committed progenitors by instructive actions of 
cytokines.

Kondo M(1), Scherer DC, Miyamoto T, King AG, Akashi K, Sugamura K, Weissman IL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, California
94305-5324, USA. motonari.kondo@stanford.edu

The primary role of cytokines in haemato-lymphopoiesis is thought to be the
regulation of cell growth and survival. But the instructive action of cytokines
in haematopoiesis has not been well addressed. Here we show that a clonogenic
common lymphoid progenitor, a bone marrow-resident cell that gives rise
exclusively to lymphocytes (T, B and natural killer cells), can be redirected to 
the myeloid lineage by stimulation through exogenously expressed interleukin
(IL)-2 and GM-CSF (granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor) receptors.
Analysis of mutants of the beta-chain of the IL-2 receptor revealed that the
granulocyte- and monocyte-differentiation signals are triggered by different
cytoplasmic domains, showing that the signalling pathway(s) responsible for these
unique developmental outcomes are separable. Finally, we show that the endogenous
myelomonocytic cytokine receptors for GM-CSF and macrophage colony-stimulating
factor (M-CSF) are expressed at low to moderate levels on the more primitive
haematopoietic stem cells, are absent on common lymphoid progenitors, and are
upregulated after myeloid lineage induction by IL-2. We conclude that cytokine
signalling can regulate cell-fate decisions and propose that a critical step in
lymphoid commitment is downregulation of cytokine receptors that drive myeloid
cell development.

DOI: 10.1038/35030112 
PMID: 11014194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):377-82.

IRS-2 pathways integrate female reproduction and energy homeostasis.

Burks DJ(1), Font de Mora J, Schubert M, Withers DJ, Myers MG, Towery HH,
Altamuro SL, Flint CL, White MF.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Joslin Diabetes Center, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.

Severe dietary restriction, catabolic states and even short-term caloric
deprivation impair fertility in mammals. Likewise, obesity is associated with
infertile conditions such as polycystic ovary syndrome. The reproductive status
of lower organisms such as Caenorhabditis elegans is also modulated by
availability of nutrients. Thus, fertility requires the integration of
reproductive and metabolic signals. Here we show that deletion of insulin
receptor substrate-2 (IRS-2), a component of the insulin/insulin-like growth
factor-1 signalling cascade, causes female infertility. Mice lacking IRS-2 have
small, anovulatory ovaries with reduced numbers of follicles. Plasma
concentrations of luteinizing hormone, prolactin and sex steroids are low in
these animals. Pituitaries are decreased in size and contain reduced numbers of
gonadotrophs. Females lacking IRS-2 have increased food intake and obesity,
despite elevated levels of leptin. Our findings indicate that insulin, together
with leptin and other neuropeptides, may modulate hypothalamic control of
appetite and reproductive endocrinology. Coupled with findings on the role of
insulin-signalling pathways in the regulation of fertility, metabolism and
longevity in C. elegans and Drosophila, we have identified an evolutionarily
conserved mechanism in mammals that regulates both reproduction and energy
homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1038/35030105 
PMID: 11014193  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):374-7.

Body image as a visuomotor transformation device revealed in adaptation to
reversed vision.

Sekiyama K(1), Miyauchi S, Imaruoka T, Egusa H, Tashiro T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cognitive Psychology, Future University-Hakodate, Kameda Nakano,
Japan. sekiyama@fun.ac.jp

People adapt with remarkable flexibility to reversal of the visual field caused
by prism spectacles. With sufficient time, this adaptation restores visually
guided behaviour and perceptual harmony between the visible and tactile worlds.
Although it has been suggested that seeing one's own body is crucial for
adaptation, the underlying mechanisms are unclear. Here we show that a new
representation of visuomotor mapping with respect to the hands emerges in a month
during adaptation to reversed vision. The subjects become bi-perceptual, or able 
to use both new and old representations. In a visual task designed to assess the 
new hand representation, subjects identified visually presented hands as left or 
right by matching the picture to the representation of their own hands.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging showed brain activity in the left posterior
frontal cortex (Broca's area) that was unique to the new hand representations of 
both hands, together with activation in the intraparietal sulcus and prefrontal
cortex. The emergence of the new hand representation coincided with the
adaptation of perceived location of visible objects in space. These results
suggest that the hand representation operates as a visuomotor transformation
device that provides an arm-centred frame of reference for space perception.

DOI: 10.1038/35030096 
PMID: 11014192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):370-4.

Variance in ecological consumer-resource interactions.

Benedetti-Cecchi L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze dell'Uomo e dell'Ambiente, Pisa, Italy.
bencecc@discat.unipi.it

Food-web models use the effect size of trophic interactions to predict
consumer-resource dynamics. These models anticipate that strong effects of
consumers increase spatial and temporal variability in abundance of species,
whereas weak effects dampen fluctuations. Empirical evidence indicates that
opposite patterns may occur in natural assemblages. Here I show that spatial
variance in the distribution of resource populations is sensitive to changes in
the variance of the trophic interaction, in addition to the mean effect of
consumers, relative to other causes of spatial variability. Simulations indicate 
that both strong and weak direct effects of consumers can promote spatial
variability in abundance of resources, but only trophic interactions with a large
mean effect size can reduce variation. Predictions of the model agree with the
results of repeated field experiments and are consistent with data from published
consumer-resource interactions, proving to be robust across widely varying
environmental conditions and species' life histories. Thus, food-web models that 
embody variance in trophic interactions may have increased capacity to explain
the wide range of effects of consumers documented in empirical studies.

DOI: 10.1038/35030089 
PMID: 11014191  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):367-70.

Increased dissolved oxygen in Pacific intermediate waters due to lower rates of
carbon oxidation in sediments.

Stott LD(1), Berelson W, Douglas R, Gorsline D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Southern California, Los Angeles
90089, USA. stott@usc.edu

Concentrations of dissolved oxygen in the ocean seem to correlate well with
climate instabilities over the past 100,000 years. For example, the concentration
of dissolved oxygen in Pacific intermediate waters was considerably higher during
Pleistocene glacial periods than it is today. This has been inferred from the
presence of bioturbated sediments, implying that oxygen levels were sufficient
for burrowing organisms to live. Today, basins in the northeastern Pacific Ocean 
are floored by laminated sediments implying lower oxygen levels, which may be
explained by reduced ventilation. Here we report a recent return to bioturbated
sediments in the northeastern Pacific Ocean since the late 1970s. From the carbon
isotope composition of benthic foraminifers living in the sediment, we infer a
twofold decrease in the carbon oxidation rate occurring within sediments,
equivalent to an increase in dissolved oxygen concentration of 15-20 micromoles
per litre. These changes, at the edges of the Santa Barbara, Santa Monica and
Alfonso basins, are coincident with a change in North Pacific climate which has
reduced upwelling by 20-30% and increased sea surface temperatures by 1.5-3
degrees C. This suggests that climate effects on surface productivity, reducing
the supply organic matter to sediments, may have had a greater effect on benthic 
oxygen levels than changes in ocean circulation patterns.

DOI: 10.1038/35030084 
PMID: 11014190  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):364-7.

Reduced calcification of marine plankton in response to increased atmospheric
CO2.

Riebesell U(1), Zondervan I, Rost B, Tortell PD, Zeebe RE, Morel FM.

Author information: 
(1)Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar and Marine Research, Bremerhaven, Germany. 
uriebesell@awi-bremerhaven.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):311, 313.

The formation of calcareous skeletons by marine planktonic organisms and their
subsequent sinking to depth generates a continuous rain of calcium carbonate to
the deep ocean and underlying sediments. This is important in regulating marine
carbon cycling and ocean-atmosphere CO2 exchange. The present rise in atmospheric
CO2 levels causes significant changes in surface ocean pH and carbonate
chemistry. Such changes have been shown to slow down calcification in corals and 
coralline macroalgae, but the majority of marine calcification occurs in
planktonic organisms. Here we report reduced calcite production at increased CO2 
concentrations in monospecific cultures of two dominant marine calcifying
phytoplankton species, the coccolithophorids Emiliania huxleyi and Gephyrocapsa
oceanica. This was accompanied by an increased proportion of malformed coccoliths
and incomplete coccospheres. Diminished calcification led to a reduction in the
ratio of calcite precipitation to organic matter production. Similar results were
obtained in incubations of natural plankton assemblages from the north Pacific
ocean when exposed to experimentally elevated CO2 levels. We suggest that the
progressive increase in atmospheric CO2 concentrations may therefore slow down
the production of calcium carbonate in the surface ocean. As the process of
calcification releases CO2 to the atmosphere, the response observed here could
potentially act as a negative feedback on atmospheric CO2 levels.

DOI: 10.1038/35030078 
PMID: 11014189  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):361-4.

Direct electrochemical reduction of titanium dioxide to titanium in molten
calcium chloride

Chen GZ(1), Fray DJ, Farthing TW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials Science and Metallurgy, University of Cambridge, UK.

Many reactive metals are difficult to prepare in pure form without complicated
and expensive procedures. Although titanium has many desirable properties (it is 
light, strong and corrosion-resistant), its use has been restricted because of
its high processing cost. In the current pyrometallurgical process--the Kroll
process--the titanium minerals rutile and ilmenite are carbochlorinated to remove
oxygen, iron and other impurities, producing a TiCl4 vapour. This is then reduced
to titanium metal by magnesium metal; the by-product MgCl2 is removed by vacuum
distillation. The prediction that this process would be replaced by an
electrochemical route has not been fulfilled; attempts involving the
electro-deposition of titanium from ionic solutions have been hampered by
difficulties in eliminating the redox cycling of multivalent titanium ions and in
handling very reactive dendritic products. Here we report an electrochemical
method for the direct reduction of solid TiO2, in which the oxygen is ionized,
dissolved in a molten salt and discharged at the anode, leaving pure titanium at 
the cathode. The simplicity and rapidity of this process compared to conventional
routes should result in reduced production costs and the approach should be
applicable to a wide range of metal oxides.

DOI: 10.1038/35030069 
PMID: 11014188 


267. Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):358-61.

Ordering and self-organization in nanocrystalline silicon

Grom GF(1), Lockwood DJ, McCaffrey JP, Labbe HJ, Fauchet PM, White B Jr, Diener
J, Kovalev D, Koch F, Tsybeskov L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Rochester,
New York 14618, USA.

The spontaneous formation of organized nanocrystals in semiconductors has been
observed during heteroepitaxial growth and chemical synthesis. The ability to
fabricate size-controlled silicon nanocrystals encapsulated by insulating SiO2
would be of significant interest to the microelectronics industry. But
reproducible manufacture of such crystals is hampered by the amorphous nature of 
SiO2 and the differing thermal expansion coefficients of the two materials.
Previous attempts to fabricate Si nanocrystals failed to achieve control over
their shape and crystallographic orientation, the latter property being important
in systems such as Si quantum dots. Here we report the self-organization of Si
nanocrystals larger than 80 A into brick-shaped crystallites oriented along the
(111) crystallographic direction. The nanocrystals are formed by the solid-phase 
crystallization of nanometre-thick layers of amorphous Si confined between SiO2
layers. The shape and orientation of the crystallites results in relatively
narrow photoluminescence, whereas isotropic particles produce qualitatively
different, broad light emission. Our results should aid the development of
maskless, reproducible Si nanofabrication techniques.

DOI: 10.1038/35030062 
PMID: 11014187 


268. Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):355-8.

Detection of geometric phases in superconducting nanocircuits

Falci G(1), Fazio R, Palma GM, Siewert J, Vedral V V.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Metodologie Fisiche e Chimiche, Universita di Catania, Italy. 
gfalci@dmfci.ing.unict.it

When a quantum-mechanical system undergoes an adiabatic cyclic evolution, it
acquires a geometrical phase factor' in addition to the dynamical one; this
effect has been demonstrated in a variety of microscopic systems. Advances in
nanotechnology should enable the laws of quantum dynamics to be tested at the
macroscopic level, by providing controllable artificial two-level systems (for
example, in quantum dots and superconducting devices). Here we propose an
experimental method to detect geometric phases in a superconducting device. The
setup is a Josephson junction nanocircuit consisting of a superconducting
electron box. We discuss how interferometry based on geometrical phases may be
realized, and show how the effect may be applied to the design of gates for
quantum computation.

DOI: 10.1038/35030052 
PMID: 11014186 


269. Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):349-51.

The accelerations of stars orbiting the Milky Way's central black hole

Ghez AM(1), Morris M, Becklin EE, Tanner A, Kremenek T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, UCLA, Los Angeles, California 90095-1562,
USA. ghez@astro.ucla.edu

Recent measurements of the velocities of stars near the centre of the Milky Way
have provided the strongest evidence for the presence of a supermassive black
hole in a galaxy, but the observational uncertainties poorly constrain many of
the black hole's properties. Determining the accelerations of stars in their
orbits around the centre provides much more precise information about the
position and mass of the black hole. Here we report measurements of the
accelerations of three stars located approximately 0.005 pc (projected on the
sky) from the central radio source Sagittarius A* (Sgr A*); these accelerations
are comparable to those experienced by the Earth as it orbits the Sun. These data
increase the inferred minimum mass density in the central region of the Galaxy by
an order of magnitude relative to previous results, and localize the dark mass to
within 0.05 +/- 0.04 arcsec of the nominal position of Sgr A*. In addition, the
orbital period of one of the observed stars could be as short as 15 years,
allowing us the opportunity in the near future to observe an entire period.

DOI: 10.1038/35030032 
PMID: 11014184 


270. Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):340-8.

Functional insights from the structure of the 30S ribosomal subunit and its
interactions with antibiotics.

Carter AP(1), Clemons WM, Brodersen DE, Morgan-Warren RJ, Wimberly BT,
Ramakrishnan V.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):306-7.

The 30S ribosomal subunit has two primary functions in protein synthesis. It
discriminates against aminoacyl transfer RNAs that do not match the codon of
messenger RNA, thereby ensuring accuracy in translation of the genetic message in
a process called decoding. Also, it works with the 50S subunit to move the tRNAs 
and associated mRNA by precisely one codon, in a process called translocation.
Here we describe the functional implications of the high-resolution 30S crystal
structure presented in the accompanying paper, and infer details of the
interactions between the 30S subunit and its tRNA and mRNA ligands. We also
describe the crystal structure of the 30S subunit complexed with the antibiotics 
paromomycin, streptomycin and spectinomycin, which interfere with decoding and
translocation. This work reveals the structural basis for the action of these
antibiotics, and leads to a model for the role of the universally conserved 16S
RNA residues A1492 and A1493 in the decoding process.

DOI: 10.1038/35030019 
PMID: 11014183  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):327-39.

Structure of the 30S ribosomal subunit.

Wimberly BT(1), Brodersen DE, Clemons WM Jr, Morgan-Warren RJ, Carter AP,
Vonrhein C, Hartsch T, Ramakrishnan V.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):306-7.

Genetic information encoded in messenger RNA is translated into protein by the
ribosome, which is a large nucleoprotein complex comprising two subunits, denoted
30S and 50S in bacteria. Here we report the crystal structure of the 30S subunit 
from Thermus thermophilus, refined to 3 A resolution. The final atomic model
rationalizes over four decades of biochemical data on the ribosome, and provides 
a wealth of information about RNA and protein structure, protein-RNA interactions
and ribosome assembly. It is also a structural basis for analysis of the
functions of the 30S subunit, such as decoding, and for understanding the action 
of antibiotics. The structure will facilitate the interpretation in molecular
terms of lower resolution structural data on several functional states of the
ribosome from electron microscopy and crystallography.

DOI: 10.1038/35030006 
PMID: 11014182  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):321-6.

Loosening of plant cell walls by expansins.

Cosgrove DJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Pennsylvania State University, University Park 16802,
USA. dCosgrove@psu.edu

Plant cell walls are the starting materials for many commercial products, from
lumber, paper and textiles to thickeners, films and explosives. The cell wall is 
secreted by each cell in the plant body, forming a thin fibreglass-like network
with remarkable strength and flexibility. During growth, plant cells secrete a
protein called expansin, which unlocks the network of wall polysaccharides,
permitting turgor-driven cell enlargement. Germinating grass pollen also secretes
an unusual expansin that loosens maternal cell walls to aid penetration of the
stigma by the pollen tube. Expansin's action has puzzling implications for plant 
cell-wall structure. The recent explosion of gene sequences and expression data
has given new hints of additional biological functions for expansins.

DOI: 10.1038/35030000 
PMID: 11014181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Nature. 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):351-5.

Onset of antiferromagnetism in heavy-fermion metals

Schroder A(1), Aeppli G, Coldea R, Adams M, Stockert O, v. Lohneysen H, Bucher E,
Ramazashvili R, Coleman P.

Author information: 
(1)Physikalisches Institut, Universitat Karlsruhe, Germany.

There are two main theoretical descriptions of antiferromagnets. The first arises
from atomic physics, which predicts that atoms with unpaired electrons develop
magnetic moments. In a solid, the coupling between moments on nearby ions then
yields antiferromagnetic order at low temperatures. The second description, based
on the physics of electron fluids or 'Fermi liquids' states that Coulomb
interactions can drive the fluid to adopt a more stable configuration by
developing a spin density wave. It is at present unknown which view is
appropriate at a 'quantum critical point' where the antiferromagnetic transition 
temperature vanishes. Here we report neutron scattering and bulk magnetometry
measurements of the metal CeCu(6-x)Au(x), which allow us to discriminate between 
the two models. We find evidence for an atomically local contribution to the
magnetic correlations which develops at the critical gold concentration (x(c) =
0.1), corresponding to a magnetic ordering temperature of zero. This contribution
implies that a Fermi-liquid-destroying spin-localizing transition, unanticipated 
from the spin density wave description, coincides with the antiferromagnetic
quantum critical point.

DOI: 10.1038/35030039 
PMID: 11014185 


274. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):265-9.

Perspectives for vascular genomics.

Rubin EM(1), Tall A.

Author information: 
(1)Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Genome Sciences Department, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA. emrubin@lbl.gov

Diseases of the vascular system result from a complex mixture of genetic and
environmental factors. Data sets, technologies and strategies emanating from the 
human genome programme have been applied to the analysis of both rare single-gene
and common multigenic vascular disorders. Genomic approaches including inter- and
intraspecies sequence comparisons, genotyping with dense marker sets spanning the
genome, large-scale mutagenesis screens of model organisms, and genome-wide
expression profiling have all begun to contribute to the identification of new
genes and mechanisms that are central to cardiovascular disease processes.

DOI: 10.1038/35025236 
PMID: 11001070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):258-64.

Thrombin signalling and protease-activated receptors.

Coughlin SR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Institute and Department of Medicine, University of
California at San Francisco, 94143-0130, USA. coughlin@cvrimail.ucsf.edu

How does the coagulation protease thrombin regulate cellular behaviour? The
protease-activated receptors (PARs) provide one answer. In concert with the
coagulation cascade, these receptors provide an elegant mechanism linking
mechanical information in the form of tissue injury or vascular leakage to
cellular responses. Roles for PARs are beginning to emerge in haemostasis and
thrombosis, inflammation, and perhaps even blood vessel development.

DOI: 10.1038/35025229 
PMID: 11001069  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):249-57.

Angiogenesis in cancer and other diseases.

Carmeliet P(1), Jain RK.

Author information: 
(1)The Center for Transgene Technology and Gene Therapy, Flanders Interuniversity
Institute for Biotechnology, KU Leuven, Belgium.
peter.carmeliet@med.kuleuven.ac.be

Pathological angiogenesis is a hallmark of cancer and various ischaemic and
inflammatory diseases. Concentrated efforts in this area of research are leading 
to the discovery of a growing number of pro- and anti-angiogenic molecules, some 
of which are already in clinical trials. The complex interactions among these
molecules and how they affect vascular structure and function in different
environments are now beginning to be elucidated. This integrated understanding is
leading to the development of a number of exciting and bold approaches to treat
cancer and other diseases. But owing to several unanswered questions, caution is 
needed.

DOI: 10.1038/35025220 
PMID: 11001068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):242-8.

Vascular-specific growth factors and blood vessel formation.

Yancopoulos GD(1), Davis S, Gale NW, Rudge JS, Wiegand SJ, Holash J.

Author information: 
(1)Regeneron Pharmacueticals, Inc., Tarrytown, New York 10591, USA.

A recent explosion in newly discovered vascular growth factors has coincided with
exploitation of powerful new genetic approaches for studying vascular
development. An emerging rule is that all of these factors must be used in
perfect harmony to form functional vessels. These new findings also demand
re-evaluation of therapeutic efforts aimed at regulating blood vessel growth in
ischaemia, cancer and other pathological settings.

DOI: 10.1038/35025215 
PMID: 11001067  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):233-41.

Atherosclerosis.

Lusis AJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Biology Institute, University of California, Los
Angeles 90095, USA. jlusis@mednet.ucla.edu

Atherosclerosis, a disease of the large arteries, is the primary cause of heart
disease and stroke. In westernized societies, it is the underlying cause of about
50% of all deaths. Epidemiological studies have revealed several important
environmental and genetic risk factors associated with atherosclerosis. Progress 
in defining the cellular and molecular interactions involved, however, has been
hindered by the disease's aetiological complexity. Over the past decade, the
availability of new investigative tools, including genetically modified mouse
models of disease, has resulted in a clearer understanding of the molecular
mechanisms that connect altered cholesterol metabolism and other risk factors to 
the development of atherosclerotic plaque. It is now clear that atherosclerosis
is not simply an inevitable degenerative consequence of ageing, but rather a
chronic inflammatory condition that can be converted into an acute clinical event
by plaque rupture and thrombosis.

DOI: 10.1038/35025203 
PMCID: PMC2826222
PMID: 11001066  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):227-32.

Genomic circuits and the integrative biology of cardiac diseases.

Chien KR(1).

Author information: 
(1)UCSD-Salk Program in Molecular Medicine and the UCSD Institute of Molecular
Medicine, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.

Human cardiac disease is the result of complex interactions between genetic
susceptibility and environmental stress. The challenge is to identify modifiers
of disease, and to design new therapeutic strategies to interrupt the underlying 
disease pathways. The availability of genomic databases for many species is
uncovering networks of conserved cardiac-specific genes within given
physiological pathways. A new classification of human cardiac diseases can be
envisaged based on the disruption of integrated genomic circuits that control
heart morphogenesis, myocyte survival, biomechanical stress responses, cardiac
contractility and electrical conduction.

DOI: 10.1038/35025196 
PMID: 11001065  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):221-6.

A genetic blueprint for cardiac development.

Srivastava D(1), Olson EN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, University of Texas, Southwestern Medical
Center at Dallas, 75390-9148, USA. dsriva@mednet.swmed.edu

Congenital heart disease is the leading non-infectious cause of death in
children. It is becoming increasingly clear that many cardiac abnormalities once 
thought to have multifactorial aetiologies are attributable to mutations in
developmental control genes. The consequences of these mutations can be manifest 
at birth as life-threatening cardiac malformations or later as more subtle
cardiac abnormalities. Understanding the genetic underpinnings of cardiac
development has important implications not only for understanding congenital
heart disease, but also for the possibility of cardiac repair through genetic
reprogramming of non-cardiac cells to a cardiogenic fate.

DOI: 10.1038/35025190 
PMID: 11001064  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):215-8.

Peptide cyclization catalysed by the thioesterase domain of tyrocidine
synthetase.

Trauger JW(1), Kohli RM, Mootz HD, Marahiel MA, Walsh CT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

In the biosynthesis of many macrocyclic natural products by multidomain
megasynthases, a carboxy-terminal thioesterase (TE) domain is involved in
cyclization and product release; however, it has not been determined whether TE
domains can catalyse macrocyclization (and elongation in the case of symmetric
cyclic peptides) independently of upstream domains. The inability to decouple the
TE cyclization step from earlier chain assembly steps has precluded determination
of TE substrate specificity, which is important for the engineered biosynthesis
of new compounds. Here we report that the excised TE domain from tyrocidine
synthetase efficiently catalyses cyclization of a decapeptide-thioester to form
the antibiotic tyrocidine A, and can catalyse pentapeptide-thioester dimerization
followed by cyclization to form the antibiotic gramicidin S. By systematically
varying the decapeptide-thioester substrate and comparing cyclization rates, we
also show that only two residues (one near each end of the decapeptide) are
critical for cyclization. This specificity profile indicates that the tyrocidine 
synthetase TE, and by analogy many other TE domains, will be able to cyclize and 
release a broad range of new substrates and products produced by engineered
enzymatic assembly lines.

DOI: 10.1038/35025116 
PMID: 11001063  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):211-5.

Peroxynitrite reductase activity of bacterial peroxiredoxins.

Bryk R(1), Griffin P, Nathan C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Weill Medical College of Cornell
University, New York, New York 10021, USA.

Nitric oxide (NO) is present in soil and air, and is produced by bacteria,
animals and plants. Superoxide (O2-) arises in all organisms inhabiting aerobic
environments. Thus, many organisms are likely to encounter peroxynitrite (OONO-),
a product of NO and O2- that forms at near diffusion-limited rates, and rapidly
decomposes upon protonation through isomerization to nitrate (NO3-; ref. 1) while
generating hydroxyl radical (*OH) and nitrogen dioxide radical (*NO2) (refs 2,
3), both more reactive than peroxynitrite's precursors. The oxidative,
inflammatory, mutagenic and cytotoxic potential (ref. 4) of peroxynitrite
contrasts with the antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and tissue-protective
properties ascribed to NO itself. Thus, the ability of cells to cope with
peroxynitrite is central in determining the biological consequences of NO
production. We considered whether cells might be equipped with enzymes to
detoxify peroxynitrite. Peroxiredoxins have been identified in most genomes
sequenced, but their functions are only partly understood. Here we show that the 
peroxiredoxin alkylhydroperoxide reductase subunit C (AhpC) from Salmonella
typhimurium catalytically detoxifies peroxynitrite to nitrite fast enough to
forestall the oxidation of bystander molecules such as DNA. Results are similar
with peroxiredoxins from Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Helicobacter pylori.
Thus, peroxynitrite reductase activity may be widespread among bacterial genera.

DOI: 10.1038/35025109 
PMID: 11001062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):207-11.

Activation of heat-shock response by an adenovirus is essential for virus
replication.

Glotzer JB(1), Saltik M, Chiocca S, Michou AI, Moseley P, Cotten M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Molecular Pathology, Vienna, Austria.

Successful viral infection requires viruses to redirect host biochemistry to
replicate the viral genome, and produce and assemble progeny virions. Cellular
heat-shock responses, which are characterized as elevation and relocalization of 
heat-shock proteins, occur during replication of many viruses. Such responses
might be host reactions to the synthesis of foreign protein, or might be
irrelevant consequences of the viral need to activate transcription.
Alternatively, as heat-shock proteins can facilitate protein folding, activating 
a heat-shock response might be a specific virus function ensuring proper
synthesis of viral proteins and virions. It is not possible to determine whether 
heat-shock response is essential for virus replication, because the implicated
viral genes (such as Ad5 EIA, ref. 10) also control other essential replication
steps. Here we report that expression of Gam1, a protein encoded by the avian
virus CELO (ref. 11), elevates and relocalizes hsp70 and hsp40. Gam1-negative
CELO is replication-defective; however, Gam1 function can be partially replaced
by either heat shock or forced hsp40 expression. Thus, an essential function of
Gam1 during virus replication is to activate host heat-shock responses with hsp40
as a primary target.

DOI: 10.1038/35025102 
PMID: 11001061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):202-7.

CAP defines a second signalling pathway required for insulin-stimulated glucose
transport.

Baumann CA(1), Ribon V, Kanzaki M, Thurmond DC, Mora S, Shigematsu S, Bickel PE, 
Pessin JE, Saltiel AR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Michigan School of Medicine, Ann
Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):147-8.

Insulin stimulates the transport of glucose into fat and muscle cells. Although
the precise molecular mechanisms involved in this process remain uncertain,
insulin initiates its actions by binding to its tyrosine kinase receptor, leading
to the phosphorylation of intracellular substrates. One such substrate is the Cbl
proto-oncogene product. Cbl is recruited to the insulin receptor by interaction
with the adapter protein CAP, through one of three adjacent SH3 domains in the
carboxy terminus of CAP. Upon phosphorylation of Cbl, the CAP-Cbl complex
dissociates from the insulin receptor and moves to a caveolin-enriched,
triton-insoluble membrane fraction. Here, to identify a molecular mechanism
underlying this subcellular redistribution, we screened a yeast two-hybrid
library using the amino-terminal region of CAP and identified the caveolar
protein flotillin. Flotillin forms a ternary complex with CAP and Cbl, directing 
the localization of the CAP-Cbl complex to a lipid raft subdomain of the plasma
membrane. Expression of the N-terminal domain of CAP in 3T3-L1 adipocytes blocks 
the stimulation of glucose transport by insulin, without affecting signalling
events that depend on phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase. Thus, localization of the
Cbl-CAP complex to lipid rafts generates a pathway that is crucial in the
regulation of glucose uptake.

DOI: 10.1038/35025089 
PMID: 11001060  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):198-202.

Functional architecture of an intracellular membrane t-SNARE.

Fukuda R(1), McNew JA, Weber T, Parlati F, Engel T, Nickel W, Rothman JE, Söllner
TH.

Author information: 
(1)Cellular Biochemistry & Biophysics Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
Center, New York, New York 10021, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):144-6.

Lipid bilayer fusion is mediated by SNAREs (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive
factor attachment protein receptors) located on the vesicle membrane (v-SNAREs)
and the target membrane (t-SNAREs). The assembled v-SNARE/t-SNARE complex
consists of a bundle of four helices, of which one is supplied by the v-SNARE and
the other three by the t-SNARE. For t-SNAREs on the plasma membrane, the protein 
syntaxin supplies one helix and a SNAP-25 protein contributes the other two.
Although there are numerous homologues of syntaxin on intracellular membranes,
there are only two SNAP-25-related proteins in yeast, Sec9 and Spo20, both of
which are localized to the plasma membrane and function in secretion and
sporulation, respectively. What replaces SNAP-25 in t-SNAREs of intracellular
membranes? Here we show that an intracellular t-SNARE is built from a 'heavy
chain' homologous to syntaxin and two separate non-syntaxin 'light chains'.
SNAP-25 may thus be the exception rather than the rule, having been derived from 
genes that encoded separate light chains that fused during evolution to produce a
single gene encoding one protein with two helices.

DOI: 10.1038/35025084 
PMID: 11001059  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):194-8.

Topological restriction of SNARE-dependent membrane fusion.

Parlati F(1), McNew JA, Fukuda R, Miller R, Söllner TH, Rothman JE.

Author information: 
(1)Cellular Biochemistry and Biophysics Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, New York 10021, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):144-6.

To fuse transport vesicles with target membranes, proteins of the SNARE (soluble 
N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptors) complex must be
located on both the vesicle (v-SNARE) and the target membrane (t-SNARE). In
yeast, four integral membrane proteins, Sed5, Bos1, Sec22 and Bet1 (refs 2-6),
each probably contribute a single helix to form the SNARE complex that is needed 
for transport from endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi. This generates a four-helix
bundle, which ultimately mediates the actual fusion event. Here we explore how
the anchoring arrangement of the four helices affects their ability to mediate
fusion. We reconstituted two populations of phospholipid bilayer vesicles, with
the individual SNARE proteins distributed in all possible combinations between
them. Of the eight non-redundant permutations of four subunits distributed over
two vesicle populations, only one results in membrane fusion. Fusion only occurs 
when the v-SNARE Bet1 is on one membrane and the syntaxin heavy chain Sed5 and
its two light chains, Bos1 and Sec22, are on the other membrane where they form a
functional t-SNARE. Thus, each SNARE protein is topologically restricted by
design to function either as a v-SNARE or as part of a t-SNARE complex.

DOI: 10.1038/35025076 
PMID: 11001058  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):189-94.

Identification of a vesicular glutamate transporter that defines a glutamatergic 
phenotype in neurons.

Takamori S(1), Rhee JS, Rosenmund C, Jahn R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Max-Planck-Institute for Biophysical Chemistry,
Göttingen, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):141, 143.

Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central
nervous system. Synaptic vesicles are loaded with neurotransmitter by means of
specific vesicular transporters. Here we show that expression of BNPI, a
vesicle-bound transporter associated with sodium-dependent phosphate transport,
results in glutamate uptake by intracellular vesicles. Substrate specificity and 
energy dependence are very similar to glutamate uptake by synaptic vesicles.
Stimulation of exocytosis--fusion of the vesicles with the cell membrane and
release of their contents--resulted in quantal release of glutamate from
BNPI-expressing cells. Furthermore, we expressed BNPI in neurons containing GABA 
(gamma-aminobutyric acid) and maintained them as cultures of single, isolated
neurons that form synapses to themselves. After stimulation of these neurons, a
component of the postsynaptic current is mediated by glutamate as it is blocked
by a combination of the glutamate receptor antagonists, but is insensitive to a
GABA(A) receptor antagonist. We conclude that BNPI functions as vesicular
glutamate transporter and that expression of BNPI suffices to define a
glutamatergic phenotype in neurons.

DOI: 10.1038/35025070 
PMID: 11001057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):186-9.

WNT signalling molecules act in axis formation in the diploblastic metazoan
Hydra.

Hobmayer B(1), Rentzsch F, Kuhn K, Happel CM, von Laue CC, Snyder P, Rothbächer
U, Holstein TW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Zoological Institute, Darmstadt
University of Technology, Germany. hobmayer@bio.tu-darmstadt.de

Members of the Wnt/wingless family of secreted proteins act as short-range
inducers and long-range organizers during axis formation, organogenesis and
tumorigenesis in many developing tissues. Wnt signalling pathways are conserved
in nematodes, insects and vertebrates. Despite its developmental significance,
the evolutionary origin of Wnt signalling is unclear. Here we describe the
molecular characterization of members of the Wnt signalling pathway--Wnt,
Dishevelled, GSK3, beta-Catenin and Tcf/Lef--in Hydra, a member of the
evolutionarily old metazoan phylum Cnidaria. Wnt and Tcf are expressed in the
putative Hydra head organizer, the upper part of the hypostome. Wnt, beta-Catenin
and Tcf are transcriptionally upregulated when head organizers are established
early in bud formation and head regeneration. Wnt and Tcf expression domains also
define head organizers created by de novo pattern formation in aggregates. Our
results indicate that Wnt signalling may be involved in axis formation in Hydra
and support the idea that it was central in the evolution of axial
differentiation in early multicellular animals.

DOI: 10.1038/35025063 
PMID: 11001056  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):183-6.

Genetic evidence for female host-specific races of the common cuckoo.

Gibbs HL(1), Sorenson MD, Marchetti K, Brooke MD, Davies NB, Nakamura H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
gibbs@mcmaster.ca

The common cuckoo Cuculus canorus is divided into host-specific races (gentes).
Females of each race lay a distinctive egg type that tends to match the host's
eggs, for instance, brown and spotted for meadow pipit hosts or plain blue for
redstart hosts. The puzzle is how these gentes remain distinct. Here, we provide 
genetic evidence that gentes are restricted to female lineages, with cross mating
by males maintaining the common cuckoo genetically as one species. We show that
there is differentiation between gentes in maternally inherited mitochondrial
DNA, but not in microsatellite loci of nuclear DNA. This supports recent
behavioural evidence that female, but not male, common cuckoos specialize on a
particular host, and is consistent with the possibility that genes affecting
cuckoo egg type are located on the female-specific W sex chromosome. Our results 
also support the ideas that common cuckoos often switched hosts during evolution,
and that some gentes may have multiple, independent origins, due to colonization 
by separate ancestral lineages.

DOI: 10.1038/35025058 
PMID: 11001055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):180-2.

Large-scale processes and the Asian bias in species diversity of temperate
plants.

Qian H(1), Ricklefs RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Forest Sciences, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada.

An important issue in the study of biodiversity is the extent to which global
patterns of species richness reflect large-scale processes and historical
contingencies. Ecological interactions in local assemblages may constrain the
number of species that can coexist, but differences in diversity in similar
habitats within different regions (diversity anomalies) suggest that this limit
is not firm. Variation in rate of species production could influence regional and
perhaps local diversity independently of the ecological capacity of an area to
support coexisting species, thereby creating diversity anomalies. Temperate Zone 
genera of plants that are disjunct between similar environments in eastern Asia
and eastern North America (EAS-ENA) have twice as many species in Asia as in
North America. Because lineages of these genera in Asia and North America are
mostly sister pairs, they share a common history of adaptation and ecological
relationship before disjunction. Thus, the diversity anomaly in EAS-ENA genera is
not an artefact of taxon or habitat sampling but reflects differences in the net 
diversification (speciation-extinction) of the lineages in each of the
continents. Here we propose that the most probable cause of the EAS-ENA anomaly
in diversity is the extreme physiographical heterogeneity of temperate eastern
Asia, especially compared with eastern North America, which in conjunction with
climate and sea-level change has provided abundant opportunities for evolutionary
radiation through allopatric speciation.

DOI: 10.1038/35025052 
PMID: 11001054  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):177-9.

Bacterial photosynthesis in surface waters of the open ocean.

Kolber ZS(1), Van Dover CL, Niederman RA, Falkowski PG.

Author information: 
(1)Environmental Biophysics and Molecular Ecology Program, Institute of Marine
and Coastal Sciences, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, New Jersey 08901-8521,
USA.

The oxidation of the global ocean by cyanobacterial oxygenic photosynthesis,
about 2,100 Myr ago, is presumed to have limited anoxygenic bacterial
photosynthesis to oceanic regions that are both anoxic and illuminated. The
discovery of oxygen-requiring photosynthetic bacteria about 20 years ago changed 
this notion, indicating that anoxygenic bacterial photosynthesis could persist
under oxidizing conditions. However, the distribution of aerobic photosynthetic
bacteria in the world oceans, their photosynthetic competence and their
relationship to oxygenic photoautotrophs on global scales are unknown. Here we
report the first biophysical evidence demonstrating that aerobic bacterial
photosynthesis is widespread in tropical surface waters of the eastern Pacific
Ocean and in temperate coastal waters of the northwestern Atlantic. Our results
indicate that these organisms account for 2-5% of the photosynthetic electron
transport in the upper ocean.

DOI: 10.1038/35025044 
PMID: 11001053  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):174-7.

Earthquake-induced changes in a hydrothermal system on the Juan de Fuca mid-ocean
ridge

Johnson HP(1), Hutnak M, Dziak RP, Fox CG, Urcuyo I I, Cowen JP, Nabelek J,
Fisher C.

Author information: 
(1)School of Oceanography, University of Washington, Seattle 98195-7940, USA.
johnson@ocean.washington.edu

Hydrothermal vents on mid-ocean ridges of the northeast Pacific Ocean are known
to respond to seismic disturbances, with observed changes in vent temperature.
But these disturbances resulted from submarine volcanic activity; until now,
there have been no observations of the response of a vent system to non-magmatic,
tectonic events. Here we report measurements of hydrothermal vent temperature
from several vents on the Juan de Fuca ridge in June 1999, before, during and
after an earthquake swarm of apparent tectonic origin. Vent fluid temperatures
began to rise 4-11 days after the first earthquake. Following this initial
increase, the vent temperatures oscillated for about a month before settling down
to higher values. We also observed a tenfold increase in fluid output from the
hydrothermal system over a period of at least 80 days, extending along the entire
ridge segment. Such a large, segment-wide thermal response to relatively modest
tectonic activity is surprising, and raises questions about the sources of excess
heat and fluid, and the possible effect on vent biological communities.

DOI: 10.1038/35025040 
PMID: 11001052 


293. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):171-4.

Termination of global warmth at the Palaeocene/Eocene boundary through
productivity feedback.

Bains S(1), Norris RD, Corfield RM, Faul KL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Oxford, UK.
santo.bains@earth.ox.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):143-4.

The onset of the Palaeocene/Eocene thermal maximum (about 55 Myr ago) was marked 
by global surface temperatures warming by 5-7 degrees C over approximately 30,000
yr (ref. 1), probably because of enhanced mantle outgassing and the pulsed
release of approximately 1,500 gigatonnes of methane carbon from decomposing
gas-hydrate reservoirs. The aftermath of this rapid, intense and global warming
event may be the best example in the geological record of the response of the
Earth to high atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations and high temperatures.
This response has been suggested to include an intensified flux of organic carbon
from the ocean surface to the deep ocean and its subsequent burial through
biogeochemical feedback mechanisms. Here we present firm evidence for this view
from two ocean drilling cores, which record the largest accumulation rates of
biogenic barium--indicative of export palaeoproductivity--at times of maximum
global temperatures and peak excursion values of delta13C. The unusually rapid
return of delta13C to values similar to those before the methane release and the 
apparent coupling of the accumulation rates of biogenic barium to temperature,
suggests that the enhanced deposition of organic matter to the deep sea may have 
efficiently cooled this greenhouse climate by the rapid removal of excess carbon 
dioxide from the atmosphere.

DOI: 10.1038/35025035 
PMID: 11001051  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):167-70.

Helical self-assembled polymers from cooperative stacking of hydrogen-bonded
pairs.

Hirschberg JH(1), Brunsveld L, Ramzi A, Vekemans JA, Sijbesma RP, Meijer EW.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Macromolecular and Organic Chemistry and Dutch Polymer
Institute, Eindhoven University of Technology, The Netherlands.

The double helix of DNA epitomizes this molecule's ability to self-assemble in
aqueous solutions into a complex chiral structure using hydrogen bonding and
hydrophobic interactions. Non-covalently interacting molecules in organic
solvents are used to design systems that similarly form controlled architectures.
Peripheral chiral centres in assemblies and chiral side chains attached to a
polymer backbone, have been shown to induce chirality at the supramolecular
level, and highly ordered structures stable in water are also known. However, it 
remains difficult to rationally exploit non-covalent interactions for the
formation of chiral assemblies that are stable in water, where solvent molecules 
can compete effectively for hydrogen bonds. Here we describe a general strategy
for the design of functionalized monomer units and their association in either
water or alkanes into non-covalently linked polymeric structures with controlled 
helicity and chain length. The monomers consist of bifunctionalized
ureidotriazine units connected by a spacer and carrying solubilizing chains at
the periphery. This design allows for dimerization through self-complementary
quadruple hydrogen bonding between the units and solvophobically induced stacking
of the dimers into columnar polymeric architectures, whose structure and helicity
can be adjusted by tuning the nature of the solubilizing side chains.

DOI: 10.1038/35025027 
PMID: 11001050  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):164-7.

Thin films of fullerene-like MoS2 nanoparticles with ultra-low friction and wear

Chhowalla M(1), Amaratunga GA.

Author information: 
(1)Engineering Department, University of Cambridge, UK.

The tribological properties of solid lubricants such as graphite and the metal
dichalcogenides MX2 (where M is molybdenum or tungsten and X is sulphur or
selenium) are of technological interest for reducing wear in circumstances where 
liquid lubricants are impractical, such as in space technology, ultra-high vacuum
or automotive transport. These materials are characterized by weak interatomic
interactions (van der Waals forces) between their layered structures, allowing
easy, low-strength shearing. Although these materials exhibit excellent friction 
and wear resistance and extended lifetime in vacuum, their tribological
properties remain poor in the presence of humidity or oxygen, thereby limiting
their technological applications in the Earth's atmosphere. But using MX2 in the 
form of isolated inorganic fullerene-like hollow nanoparticles similar to carbon 
fullerenes and nanotubes can improve its performance. Here we show that thin
films of hollow MoS2 nanoparticles, deposited by a localized high-pressure arc
discharge method, exhibit ultra-low friction (an order of magnitude lower than
for sputtered MoS2 thin films) and wear in nitrogen and 45% humidity. We
attribute this 'dry' behaviour in humid environments to the presence of curved
S-Mo-S planes that prevent oxidation and preserve the layered structure.

DOI: 10.1038/35025020 
PMID: 11001049 


296. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):162-4.

Enhanced supercurrent density in polycrystalline YBa2Cu3O(7-delta) at 77 K from
calcium doping of grain boundaries

Hammerl G(1), Schmehl A, Schulz RR, Goetz B, Bielefeldt H, Schneider CW,
Hilgenkamp H, Mannhart J.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Physics VI, Center for Electronic Correlations and Magnetism,
Institute of Physics, University of Augsburg, Germany.

With the discovery of high-temperature superconductivity, it seemed that the
vision of superconducting power cables operating at the boiling point of liquid
nitrogen (77 K) was close to realization. But it was soon found that the critical
current density Jc of the supercurrents that can pass through these
polycrystalline materials without destroying superconductivity is remarkably
small. In many materials, Jc is suppressed at grain boundaries, by phenomena such
as interface charging and bending of the electronic band structure. Partial
replacement ('doping') of the yttrium in YBa2Cu3O(7-delta) with calcium has been 
used to increase grain-boundary Jc values substantially, but only at temperatures
much lower than 77 K (ref. 9). Here we show that preferentially overdoping the
grain boundaries, relative to the grains themselves, yields values of Jc at 77 K 
that far exceed previously published values. Our results indicate that
grain-boundary doping is a viable approach for producing a practical,
cost-effective superconducting power cable operating at liquid-nitrogen
temperatures.

DOI: 10.1038/35025014 
PMID: 11001048 


297. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):160-2.

Laboratory detection of X-ray fringes with a grazing-incidence interferometer

Cash W(1), Shipley A, Osterman S, Joy M.

Author information: 
(1)University of Colorado, Boulder 80309-0389, USA. cash@casa.colorado.edu

Starting with Galileo's observations of the Solar System, improvements of an
order of magnitude in either the sensitivity or resolution of astronomical
instruments have always brought revolutionary discoveries. The X-ray band of the 
spectrum, where exotic objects can have extremely high surface brightness, is
ideally suited for significant improvements in imaging, but progress has been
impeded by a lack of optics of sufficiently high sensitivity and quality. Here we
present an X-ray interferometer design that is practical for adaptation to
astronomical observatories. Our prototype interferometer, having just under one
millimetre of baseline, creates fringes at 1.25 keV with an angular resolution of
100 milliarcseconds. With a larger version in orbit it will be possible to
resolve X-ray sources at 10(-7) arcseconds, three orders of magnitude better than
the finest-resolution images ever achieved on the sky (in the radio part of the
spectrum) and over one million times better than the current best X-ray images.
With such resolutions, we can study the environments of pulsars, resolve and then
model relativistic blast waves, image material falling into a black hole, watch
the physical formation of astrophysical jets, and study the dynamos of stellar
coronae.

DOI: 10.1038/35025009 
PMID: 11001047 


298. Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):153-9.

Compartmental specificity of cellular membrane fusion encoded in SNARE proteins.

McNew JA(1), Parlati F, Fukuda R, Johnston RJ, Paz K, Paumet F, Söllner TH,
Rothman JE.

Author information: 
(1)Cellular Biochemistry and Biophysics Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, New York 10021, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):144-6.

Membrane-enveloped vesicles travel among the compartments of the cytoplasm of
eukaryotic cells, delivering their specific cargo to programmed locations by
membrane fusion. The pairing of vesicle v-SNAREs (soluble
N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptors) with target
membrane t-SNAREs has a central role in intracellular membrane fusion. We have
tested all of the potential v-SNAREs encoded in the yeast genome for their
capacity to trigger fusion by partnering with t-SNAREs that mark the Golgi, the
vacuole and the plasma membrane. Here we find that, to a marked degree, the
pattern of membrane flow in the cell is encoded and recapitulated by its isolated
SNARE proteins, as predicted by the SNARE hypothesis.

DOI: 10.1038/35025000 
PMID: 11001046  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):106-10.

Domain-specific recruitment of amide amino acids for protein synthesis.

Tumbula DL(1), Becker HD, Chang WZ, Söll D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520-8114, USA.

The formation of aminoacyl-transfer RNA is a crucial step in ensuring the
accuracy of protein synthesis. Despite the central importance of this process in 
all living organisms, it remains unknown how archaea and some bacteria synthesize
Asn-tRNA and Gln-tRNA. These amide aminoacyl-tRNAs can be formed by the direct
acylation of tRNA, catalysed by asparaginyl-tRNA synthetase and glutaminyl-tRNA
synthetase, respectively. A separate, indirect pathway involves the formation of 
mis-acylated Asp-tRNA(Asn) or Glu-tRNA(Gln), and the subsequent amidation of
these amino acids while they are bound to tRNA, which is catalysed by
amidotransferases. Here we show that all archaea possess an archaea-specific
heterodimeric amidotransferase (encoded by gatD and gatE) for Gln-tRNA formation.
However, Asn-tRNA synthesis in archaea is divergent: some archaea use
asparaginyl-tRNA synthetase, whereas others use a heterotrimeric amidotransferase
(encoded by the gatA, gatB and gatC genes). Because bacteria primarily use
transamidation, and the eukaryal cytoplasm uses glutaminyl-tRNA synthetase, it
appears that the three domains use different mechanisms for Gln-tRNA synthesis;
as such, this is the only known step in protein synthesis where all three domains
have diverged. Closer inspection of the two amidotransferases reveals that each
of them recruited a metabolic enzyme to aid its function; this provides direct
evidence for a relationship between amino-acid metabolism and protein
biosynthesis.

DOI: 10.1038/35024120 
PMID: 10993083  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):102-6.

TFIIH is negatively regulated by cdk8-containing mediator complexes.

Akoulitchev S(1), Chuikov S, Reinberg D.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Biochemistry, Robert Wood
Johnson Medical School, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, USA.

The mammalian cyclin-dependent kinase 8 (cdk8) gene has been linked with a subset
of acute lymphoblastic leukaemias, and its corresponding protein has been
functionally implicated in regulation of transcription. Mammalian cdk8 and cyclin
C, and their respective yeast homologues, Srb10 and Srb11, are components of the 
RNA polymerase II holoenzyme complex where they function as a protein kinase that
phosphorylates the carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) of the largest subunit of RNA
polymerase II (ref. 7). The yeast SRB10 and SRB11 genes have been implicated in
the negative regulation of transcription. The cdk8/cyclin C protein complex is
also found in a number of mammalian Mediator-like protein complexes, which
repress activated transcription independently of the CTD in vitro. Here we show
that cdk8/cyclin C can regulate transcription by targeting the cdk7/cyclin H
subunits of the general transcription initiation factor IIH (TFIIH). cdk8
phosphorylates mammalian cyclin H in the vicinity of its functionally unique
amino-terminal and carboxy-terminal alpha-helical domains. This phosphorylation
represses both the ability of TFIIH to activate transcription and its CTD kinase 
activity. In addition, mimicking cdk8 phosphorylation of cyclin H in vivo has a
dominant-negative effect on cell growth. Our results link the Mediator complex
and the basal transcription machinery by a regulatory pathway involving two
cyclin-dependent kinases. This pathway appears to be unique to higher organisms.

DOI: 10.1038/35024111 
PMID: 10993082  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


301. Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):98-102.

Pilus retraction powers bacterial twitching motility.

Merz AJ(1), So M, Sheetz MP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology, Oregon Health Sciences
University, Portland 97201-3098, USA.

Twitching and social gliding motility allow many gram negative bacteria to crawl 
along surfaces, and are implicated in a wide range of biological functions. Type 
IV pili (Tfp) are required for twitching and social gliding, but the mechanism by
which these filaments promote motility has remained enigmatic. Here we use laser 
tweezers to show that Tfp forcefully retract. Neisseria gonorrhoeae cells that
produce Tfp actively crawl on a glass surface and form adherent microcolonies.
When laser tweezers are used to place and hold cells near a microcolony,
retractile forces pull the cells toward the microcolony. In quantitative
experiments, the Tfp of immobilized bacteria bind to latex beads and retract,
pulling beads from the tweezers at forces that can exceed 80 pN. Episodes of
retraction terminate with release or breakage of the Tfp tether. Both motility
and retraction mediated by Tfp occur at about 1 microm s(-1) and require protein 
synthesis and function of the PilT protein. Our experiments establish that Tfp
filaments retract, generate substantial force and directly mediate cell movement.

DOI: 10.1038/35024105 
PMID: 10993081  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):94-8.

AT1-receptor heterodimers show enhanced G-protein activation and altered receptor
sequestration.

AbdAlla S(1), Lother H, Quitterer U.

Author information: 
(1)Genetics Engineering and Biotechnology Research Institute, Manchiat El-Olama, 
El-Dekheela, Alexandria, Egypt.

The vasopressor angiotensin II regulates vascular contractility and blood
pressure through binding to type 1 angiotensin II receptors (AT1; refs 1, 2).
Bradykinin, a vasodepressor, is a functional antagonist of angiotensin II (ref.
3). The two hormone systems are interconnected by the angiotensin-converting
enzyme, which releases angiotensin II from its precursor and inactivates the
vasodepressor bradykinin. Here we show that the AT1 receptor and the bradykinin
(B2) receptor also communicate directly with each other. They form stable
heterodimers, causing increased activation of G alpha(q) and G alpha(i) proteins,
the two major signalling proteins triggered by AT1. Furthermore, the endocytotic 
pathway of both receptors changed with heterodimerization. This is the first
example of signal enhancement triggered by heterodimerization of two different
vasoactive hormone receptors.

DOI: 10.1038/35024095 
PMID: 10993080  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):90-4.

Infection by porcine endogenous retrovirus after islet xenotransplantation in
SCID mice.

van der Laan LJ(1), Lockey C, Griffeth BC, Frasier FS, Wilson CA, Onions DE,
Hering BJ, Long Z, Otto E, Torbett BE, Salomon DR.

Author information: 
(1)The Scripps Research Institute, Department of Molecular and Experimental
Medicine, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):27, 29-30.

Animal donors such as pigs could provide an alternative source of organs for
transplantation. However, the promise of xenotransplantation is offset by the
possible public health risk of a cross-species infection. All pigs contain
several copies of porcine endogenous retroviruses (PERV), and at least three
variants of PERV can infect human cell lines in vitro in co-culture, infectivity 
and pseudotyping experiments. Thus, if xenotransplantation of pig tissues results
in PERV viral replication, there is a risk of spreading and adaptation of this
retrovirus to the human host. C-type retroviruses related to PERV are associated 
with malignancies of haematopoietic lineage cells in their natural hosts. Here we
show that pig pancreatic islets produce PERV and can infect human cells in
culture. After transplantation into NOD/SCID (non-obese diabetic, severe combined
immunodeficiency) mice, we detect ongoing viral expression and several tissue
compartments become infected. This is the first evidence that PERV is
transcriptionally active and infectious cross-species in vivo after
transplantation of pig tissues. These results show that a concern for PERV
infection risk associated with pig islet xenotransplantation in immunosuppressed 
human patients may be justified.

DOI: 10.1038/35024089 
PMID: 10993079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):86-90.

Cloned pigs produced by nuclear transfer from adult somatic cells.

Polejaeva IA(1), Chen SH, Vaught TD, Page RL, Mullins J, Ball S, Dai Y, Boone J, 
Walker S, Ayares DL, Colman A, Campbell KH.

Author information: 
(1)PPL Therapeutics Incorporated, Blacksburg, Virginia 24060, USA.
ipolejaeva@ppl-therapeutics.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):27, 29-30.

Since the first report of live mammals produced by nuclear transfer from a
cultured differentiated cell population in 1995 (ref. 1), successful development 
has been obtained in sheep, cattle, mice and goats using a variety of somatic
cell types as nuclear donors. The methodology used for embryo reconstruction in
each of these species is essentially similar: diploid donor nuclei have been
transplanted into enucleated MII oocytes that are activated on, or after
transfer. In sheep and goat pre-activated oocytes have also proved successful as 
cytoplast recipients. The reconstructed embryos are then cultured and selected
embryos transferred to surrogate recipients for development to term. In pigs,
nuclear transfer has been significantly less successful; a single piglet was
reported after transfer of a blastomere nucleus from a four-cell embryo to an
enucleated oocyte; however, no live offspring were obtained in studies using
somatic cells such as diploid or mitotic fetal fibroblasts as nuclear donors. The
development of embryos reconstructed by nuclear transfer is dependent upon a
range of factors. Here we investigate some of these factors and report the
successful production of cloned piglets from a cultured adult somatic cell
population using a new nuclear transfer procedure.

DOI: 10.1038/35024082 
PMID: 10993078  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):81-6.

Genome sequence of the endocellular bacterial symbiont of aphids Buchnera sp.
APS.

Shigenobu S(1), Watanabe H, Hattori M, Sakaki Y, Ishikawa H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Graduate School of Science, University of
Tokyo, Japan.

Almost all aphid species (Homoptera, Insecta) have 60-80 huge cells called
bacteriocytes, within which are round-shaped bacteria that are designated
Buchnera. These bacteria are maternally transmitted to eggs and embryos through
host generations, and the mutualism between the host and the bacteria is so
obligate that neither can reproduce independently. Buchnera is a close relative
of Escherichia coli, but it contains more than 100 genomic copies per cell, and
its genome size is only a seventh of that of E. coli. Here we report the complete
genome sequence of Buchnera sp. strain APS, which is composed of one
640,681-base-pair chromosome and two small plasmids. There are genes for the
biosyntheses of amino acids essential for the hosts in the genome, but those for 
non-essential amino acids are missing, indicating complementarity and syntrophy
between the host and the symbiont. In addition, Buchnera lacks genes for the
biosynthesis of cell-surface components, including lipopolysaccharides and
phospholipids, regulator genes and genes involved in defence of the cell. These
results indicate that Buchnera is completely symbiotic and viable only in its
limited niche, the bacteriocyte.

DOI: 10.1038/35024074 
PMID: 10993077  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):78-80.

Uptake of dissolved organic carbon and trace elements by zebra mussels.

Roditi HA(1), Fisher NS, Sañudo-Wilhelmy SA.

Author information: 
(1)Marine Sciences Research Center, State University of New York, Stony Brook
11794-5000, USA.

Zebra mussels (Dreissena polymorpha) are widespread and abundant in major
freshwater ecosystems in North America, even though the phytoplankton food
resources in some of these systems seem to be too low to sustain them. Because
phytoplankton biomass is greatly depleted in ecosystems with large D. polymorpha 
populations and bacteria do not seem to be an important food source for this
species, exploitation of alternative carbon sources may explain the unexpected
success of D. polymorpha in such environments. Here we examine the possibility
that absorption of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) from water could provide a
nutritional supplement to zebra mussels. We find that mussels absorb 14C-labelled
DOC produced by cultured diatoms with an efficiency of 0.23%; this indicates that
DOC in natural waters could contribute up to 50% of the carbon demand of zebra
mussels. We also find that zebra mussels absorb some dissolved metals that have
been complexed by the DOM; although absorption of dissolved selenium was
unaffected by DOC, absorption of dissolved cadmium, silver and mercury by the
mussels increased 32-, 8.7- and 3.6-fold, respectively, in the presence of
high-molecular-weight DOC.

DOI: 10.1038/35024069 
PMID: 10993076  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):74-8.

Biochemical evidence of cannibalism at a prehistoric Puebloan site in
southwestern Colorado.

Marlar RA(1), Leonard BL, Billman BR, Lambert PM, Marlar JE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Denver
80262, USA. marlarr@den-res.org

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):25-6.

The existence of cannibalism is one of the most controversial issues in the
archaeology of the American Southwest. Disarticulated, cut-marked and
heat-altered human remains from non-burial contexts at prehistoric Puebloan
(Anasazi) archaeological sites in the Four Corners region of the American
Southwest have been interpreted by some scholars as evidence of cannibalism.
Osteological studies indicate that many of the disarticulated bodies found at
these sites were processed in a manner consistent with food preparation.
Opponents of this interpretation point out that non-cannibalistic practices such 
as secondary interment, corpse mutilation and ritualized witch executions might
account for the assemblages. Osteological evidence alone does not document the
actual ingestion of human flesh. Here we show consumption of human flesh did
occur as demonstrated in preserved human waste containing identifiable human
tissue remains from a site with osteological evidence of cannibalism.

DOI: 10.1038/35024064 
PMID: 10993075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):72-4.

The earliest known sauropod dinosaur.

Buffetaut E(1), Suteethorn V, Cuny G, Tong H, Le Loeuff J, Khansubha S,
Jongautchariyakul S.

Author information: 
(1)Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Paris, France.
Eric.Buffetaut@wanadoo.fr

Sauropods were a very successful group of dinosaurs during the Jurassic and
Cretaceous periods, but their earlier history is poorly known. Until now, the
earliest reported sauropod bones were from the Early Jurassic, and the only
tentative evidence of earlier sauropods was in the form of controversial
footprints. Here we report the discovery of an incomplete sauropod skeleton from 
the Late Triassic period of Thailand, which provides the first osteological
evidence of pre-Jurassic sauropods. This dinosaur is markedly different from
prosauropods and substantiates theoretical predictions that there was a fairly
long period of sauropod evolution during the Triassic.

DOI: 10.1038/35024060 
PMID: 10993074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):69-72.

Earthquakes as beacons of stress change

Seeber L(1), Armbruster JG.

Author information: 
(1)Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Palisades, New York 10964, USA.
nano@ldeo.columbia.edu

Aftershocks occurring on faults in the far-field of a large earthquake rupture
can generally be accounted for by changes in static stress on these faults caused
by the rupture. This implies that faults interact, and that the timing of an
earthquake can be affected by previous nearby ruptures. Here we explore the
potential of small earthquakes to act as 'beacons' for the mechanical state of
the crust. We investigate the static-stress changes resulting from the 1992
Landers earthquake in southern California which occurred in an area of high
seismic activity stemming from many faults. We first gauge the response of the
regional seismicity to the Landers event with a new technique, and then apply the
same method to the inverse problem of determining the slip distribution on the
main rupture from the seismicity. Assuming justifiable parameters, we derive
credible matches to slip profiles obtained directly from the Landers mainshock.
Our results provide a way to monitor mechanical conditions in the upper crust,
and to investigate processes leading to fault failure.

DOI: 10.1038/35024055 
PMID: 10993073 


310. Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):66-9.

Mid-depth recirculation observed in the interior Labrador and Irminger seas by
direct velocity measurements

Lavender KL(1), Davis RE, Owens WB.

Author information: 
(1)Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California, San Diego, La
Jolla 92093-0230, USA. klavender@ucsd.edu

The Labrador Sea is one of the sites where convection exports surface water to
the deep ocean in winter as part of the thermohaline circulation. Labrador Sea
water is characteristically cold and fresh, and it can be traced at intermediate 
depths (500-2,000 m) across the North Atlantic Ocean, to the south and to the
east of the Labrador Sea. Widespread observations of the ocean currents that lead
to this distribution of Labrador Sea water have, however, been difficult and
therefore scarce. We have used more than 200 subsurface floats to measure
directly basin-wide horizontal velocities at various depths in the Labrador and
Irminger seas. We observe unanticipated recirculations of the mid-depth
(approximately 700 m) cyclonic boundary currents in both basins, leading to an
anticyclonic flow in the interior of the Labrador basin. About 40% of the floats 
from the region of deep convection left the basin within one year and were
rapidly transported in the anticyclonic flow to the Irminger basin, and also
eastwards into the subpolar gyre. Surprisingly, the float tracks did not clearly 
depict the deep western boundary current, which is the expected main pathway of
Labrador Sea water in the thermohaline circulation. Rather, the flow along the
boundary near Flemish Cap is dominated by eddies that transport water offshore.
Our detailed observations of the velocity structure with a high data coverage
suggest that we may have to revise our picture of the formation and spreading of 
Labrador Sea water, and future studies with similar instrumentation will allow
new insights on the intermediate depth ocean circulation.

DOI: 10.1038/35024048 
PMID: 10993072 


311. Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):63-5.

Chemical characterization of bohrium (element 107)

Eichler R(1), Bruchle W, Dressler R, Dullmann CE, Eichler B, Gaggeler HW,
Gregorich KE, Hoffman DC, Hubener S, Jost DT, Kirbach UW, Laue CA, Lavanchy VM,
Nitsche H, Patin JB, Piguet D, Schadel M, Shaughnessy DA, Strellis DA, Taut S,
Tobler L, Tsyganov YS, Turler A, Vahle A, Wilk PA, Yakushev AB.

Author information: 
(1)Departement fur Chemie und Biochemie, Universitat Bern, Switzerland.

The arrangement of the chemical elements in the periodic table highlights
resemblances in chemical properties, which reflect the elements' electronic
structure. For the heaviest elements, however, deviations in the periodicity of
chemical properties are expected: electrons in orbitals with a high probability
density near the nucleus are accelerated by the large nuclear charges to
relativistic velocities, which increase their binding energies and cause orbital 
contraction. This leads to more efficient screening of the nuclear charge and
corresponding destabilization of the outer d and f orbitals: it is these changes 
that can give rise to unexpected chemical properties. The synthesis of
increasingly heavy elements, now including that of elements 114, 116 and 118,
allows the investigation of this effect, provided sufficiently long-lived
isotopes for chemical characterization are available. In the case of elements 104
and 105, for example, relativistic effects interrupt characteristic trends in the
chemical properties of the elements constituting the corresponding columns of the
periodic table, whereas element 106 behaves in accordance with the expected
periodicity. Here we report the chemical separation and characterization of six
atoms of element 107 (bohrium, Bh), in the form of its oxychloride. We find that 
this compound is less volatile than the oxychlorides of the lighter elements of
group VII, thus confirming relativistic calculations that predict the behaviour
of bohrium, like that of element 106, to coincide with that expected on the basis
of its position in the periodic table.

DOI: 10.1038/35024044 
PMID: 10993071 


312. Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):57-60.

Nanomechanical oscillations in a single-C60 transistor

Park H(1), Park J, Lim AK, Anderson EH, Alivisatos AP, McEuen PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California at Berkeley, USA.

The motion of electrons through quantum dots is strongly modified by
single-electron charging and the quantization of energy levels. Much effort has
been directed towards extending studies of electron transport to chemical
nanostructures, including molecules, nanocrystals and nanotubes. Here we report
the fabrication of single-molecule transistors based on individual C60 molecules 
connected to gold electrodes. We perform transport measurements that provide
evidence for a coupling between the centre-of-mass motion of the C60 molecules
and single-electron hopping--a conduction mechanism that has not been observed
previously in quantum dot studies. The coupling is manifest as quantized
nano-mechanical oscillations of the C60 molecule against the gold surface, with a
frequency of about 1.2 THz. This value is in good agreement with a simple
theoretical estimate based on van der Waals and electrostatic interactions
between C60 molecules and gold electrodes.

DOI: 10.1038/35024031 
PMID: 10993069 


313. Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):55-7.

Non-quantized penetration of magnetic field in the vortex state of
superconductors

Geim AK(1), Dubonos SV, Grigorieva IV IV, Novoselov KS, Peeters FM, Schweigert
VA.

Author information: 
(1)University of Nijmegen, The Netherlands. geim@sci.kun.nl

As first pointed out by Bardeen and Ginzburg in the early sixties, the amount of 
magnetic flux carried by vortices in superconducting materials depends on their
distance from the sample edge, and can be smaller than one flux quantum, phi0 =
h/2e (where h is Planck's constant and e is the electronic charge). In bulk
superconductors, this reduction of flux becomes negligible at submicrometre
distances from the edge, but in thin films the effect may survive much farther
into the material. But the effect has not been observed experimentally, and it is
often assumed that magnetic field enters type II superconductors in units of
phi0. Here we measure the amount of flux introduced by individual vortices in a
superconducting film, finding that the flux always differs substantially from
phi0. We have observed vortices that carry as little as 0.001phi0, as well as
'negative vortices', whose penetration leads to the expulsion of magnetic field. 
We distinguish two phenomena responsible for non-quantized flux penetration: the 
finite-size effect and a nonlinear screening of the magnetic field due to the
presence of a surface barrier. The latter effect has not been considered
previously, but is likely to cause non-quantized penetration in most cases.

DOI: 10.1038/35024025 
PMID: 10993068 


314. Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):48-54.

Nicastrin modulates presenilin-mediated notch/glp-1 signal transduction and
betaAPP processing.

Yu G(1), Nishimura M, Arawaka S, Levitan D, Zhang L, Tandon A, Song YQ, Rogaeva
E, Chen F, Kawarai T, Supala A, Levesque L, Yu H, Yang DS, Holmes E, Milman P,
Liang Y, Zhang DM, Xu DH, Sato C, Rogaev E, Smith M, Janus C, Zhang Y, Aebersold 
R, Farrer LS, Sorbi S, Bruni A, Fraser P, St George-Hyslop P.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases, Toronto Western Hospital,
and Department of Medicine (Neurology), University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):34-5.

Nicastrin, a transmembrane glycoprotein, forms high molecular weight complexes
with presenilin 1 and presenilin 2. Suppression of nicastrin expression in
Caenorhabditis elegans embryos induces a subset of notch/glp-1 phenotypes similar
to those induced by simultaneous null mutations in both presenilin homologues of 
C. elegans (sel-12 and hop-1). Nicastrin also binds carboxy-terminal derivatives 
of beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP), and modulates the production of the 
amyloid beta-peptide (A beta) from these derivatives. Missense mutations in a
conserved hydrophilic domain of nicastrin increase A beta42 and A beta40 peptide 
secretion. Deletions in this domain inhibit A beta production. Nicastrin and
presenilins are therefore likely to be functional components of a multimeric
complex necessary for the intramembranous proteolysis of proteins such as
Notch/GLP-1 and betaAPP.

DOI: 10.1038/35024009 
PMID: 10993067  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):41-7.

Microtubule motors in mitosis.

Sharp DJ(1), Rogers GC, Scholey JM.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of California-Davis,
95616, USA.

The mitotic spindle uses microtubule-based motor proteins to assemble itself and 
to segregate sister chromatids. It is becoming clear that motors invoke several
distinct mechanisms to generate the forces that drive mitosis. Moreover, in
carrying out its function, the spindle appears to pass through a series of
transient steady-state structures, each established by a delicate balance of
forces generated by multiple complementary and antagonistic motors. Transitions
from one steady state to the next can occur when a change in the activity of a
subset of mitotic motors tips the balance.

DOI: 10.1038/35024000 
PMID: 10993066  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Nature. 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):60-3.

Gas-phase production and photoelectron spectroscopy of the smallest fullerene,
C20

Prinzbach H(1), Weiler A, Landenberger P, Wahl F, Worth J, Scott LT, Gelmont M,
Olevano D, v. Issendorff B.

Author information: 
(1)Institut fur Organische Chemie und Biochemie, Albert-Ludwigs-Universitat,
Freiburg, Germany. horst.prinzbach@orgmail.chemie.uni-freiburg.de

Fullerenes are graphitic cage structures incorporating exactly twelve pentagons. 
The smallest possible fullerene is thus C20, which consists solely of pentagons. 
But the extreme curvature and reactivity of this structure have led to doubts
about its existence and stability. Although theoretical calculations have
identified, besides this cage, a bowl and a monocyclic ring isomer as low-energy 
members of the C20 cluster family, only ring isomers of C20 have been observed so
far. Here we show that the cage-structured fullerene C20 can be produced from its
perhydrogenated form (dodecahedrane C20H20) by replacing the hydrogen atoms with 
relatively weakly bound bromine atoms, followed by gas-phase debromination. For
comparison we have also produced the bowl isomer of C20 using the same procedure.
We characterize the generated C20 clusters using mass-selective anion
photoelectron spectroscopy; the observed electron affinities and vibrational
structures of these two C20 isomers differ significantly from each other, as well
as from those of the known monocyclic isomer. We expect that these unique C20
species will serve as a benchmark test for further theoretical studies.

DOI: 10.1038/35024037 
PMID: 10993070 


317. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):1047-54.

Ultimate physical limits to computation

Lloyd S(1).

Author information: 
(1)MIT Department of Mechanical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge 02139, USA. slloyd@mit.edu

Computers are physical systems: the laws of physics dictate what they can and
cannot do. In particular, the speed with which a physical device can process
information is limited by its energy and the amount of information that it can
process is limited by the number of degrees of freedom it possesses. Here I
explore the physical limits of computation as determined by the speed of light c,
the quantum scale h and the gravitational constant G. As an example, I put
quantitative bounds to the computational power of an 'ultimate laptop' with a
mass of one kilogram confined to a volume of one litre.

DOI: 10.1038/35023282 
PMID: 10984064 


318. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):1039-46.

Amplifying quantum signals with the single-electron transistor

Devoret MH(1), Schoelkopf RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Physics, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, 
USA.

Transistors have continuously reduced in size and increased in switching speed
since their invention in 1947. The exponential pace of transistor evolution has
led to a revolution in information acquisition, processing and communication
technologies. And reigning over most digital applications is a single device
structure--the field-effect transistor (FET). But as device dimensions approach
the nanometre scale, quantum effects become increasingly important for device
operation, and conceptually new transistor structures may need to be adopted. A
notable example of such a structure is the single-electron transistor, or SET.
Although it is unlikely that SETs will replace FETs in conventional electronics, 
they should prove useful in ultra-low-noise analog applications. Moreover,
because it is not affected by the same technological limitations as the FET, the 
SET can approach closely the quantum limit of sensitivity. It might also be a
useful read-out device for a solid-state quantum computer.

DOI: 10.1038/35023253 
PMID: 10984063 


319. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):1032-8.

Alternative dielectrics to silicon dioxide for memory and logic devices

Kingon AI(1), Maria JP, Streiffer SK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Material Science and Engineering, North Carolina State
University, Raleigh 27695, USA. angus_kingon@ncsu.edu

The silicon-based microelectronics industry is rapidly approaching a point where 
device fabrication can no longer be simply scaled to progressively smaller sizes.
Technological decisions must now be made that will substantially alter the
directions along which silicon devices continue to develop. One such challenge is
the need for higher permittivity dielectrics to replace silicon dioxide, the
properties of which have hitherto been instrumental to the industry's success.
Considerable efforts have already been made to develop replacement dielectrics
for dynamic random-access memories. These developments serve to illustrate the
magnitude of the now urgent problem of identifying alternatives to silicon
dioxide for the gate dielectric in logic devices, such as the ubiquitous
field-effect transistor.

DOI: 10.1038/35023243 
PMID: 10984062 


320. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):1027-31.

Pushing the limits of lithography

Ito T(1), Okazaki S.

Author information: 
(1)Fujitsu Laboratories Ltd, Atsugi, Japan.

The phenomenal rate of increase in the integration density of silicon chips has
been sustained in large part by advances in optical lithography--the process that
patterns and guides the fabrication of the component semiconductor devices and
circuitry. Although the introduction of shorter-wavelength light sources and
resolution-enhancement techniques should help maintain the current rate of device
miniaturization for several more years, a point will be reached where optical
lithography can no longer attain the required feature sizes. Several alternative 
lithographic techniques under development have the capability to overcome these
resolution limits but, at present, no obvious successor to optical lithography
has emerged.

DOI: 10.1038/35023233 
PMID: 10984061 


321. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):1023-6.

The drive to miniaturization

Peercy PS(1).

Author information: 
(1)The College of Engineering, University of Wisconsin, Madison 53706-1691, USA.

Following the introduction of silicon-based integrated circuitry over three
decades ago, the integration density of such circuits has doubled every 12 to 18 
months: this observation is known as Moore's law. For this historical trend to
continue, significant challenges need to be overcome in several key technological
areas. But for many of these challenges, there are at present no known solutions.

DOI: 10.1038/35023223 
PMID: 10984060 


322. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):1015-9.

Eukaryotic polymerases iota and zeta act sequentially to bypass DNA lesions.

Johnson RE(1), Washington MT, Haracska L, Prakash S, Prakash L.

Author information: 
(1)Sealy Centre for Molecular Science, University of Texas Medical Branch at
Galveston, 77555-1061, USA.

DNA lesions can often block DNA replication, so cells possess specialized
low-fidelity, and often error-prone, DNA polymerases that can bypass such lesions
and promote replication of damaged DNA. The Saccharomyces cerevisiae RAD30 and
human hRAD30A encode Pol eta, which bypasses a cis-syn thymine-thymine dimer
efficiently and accurately. Here we show that a related human gene, hRAD30B,
encodes the DNA polymerase Pol iota, which misincorporates deoxynucleotides at a 
high rate. To bypass damage, Pol iota specifically incorporates deoxynucleotides 
opposite highly distorting or non-instructional DNA lesions. This action is
combined with that of DNA polymerase Pol zeta, which is essential for
damage-induced mutagenesis, to complete the lesion bypass. Pol zeta is very
inefficient in inserting deoxynucleotides opposite DNA lesions, but readily
extends from such deoxynucleotides once they have been inserted. Thus, in a new
model for mutagenic bypass of DNA lesions in eukaryotes, the two DNA polymerases 
act sequentially: Pol iota incorporates deoxynucleotides opposite DNA lesions,
and Pol zeta functions as a mispair extender.

DOI: 10.1038/35023030 
PMID: 10984059  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):1013-5.

Myosin V orientates the mitotic spindle in yeast.

Yin H(1), Pruyne D, Huffaker TC, Bretscher A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Cornell University, Ithaca, New 
York 14853, USA.

Coordination of spindle orientation with the axis of cell division is an
essential process in all eukaryotes. In addition to ensuring accurate chromosomal
segregation, proper spindle orientation also establishes differential cell fates 
and proper morphogenesis. In both animal and yeast cells, this process is
dependent on cytoplasmic microtubules interacting with the cortical actin-based
cytoskeleton, although the motive force was unknown. Here we show that yeast
Myo2, a myosin V that translocates along polarized actin cables into the bud,
orientates the spindle early in the cell cycle by binding and polarizing the
microtubule-associated protein Kar9 (refs 7-9). The tail domain of Myo2 that
binds Kar9 also interacts with secretory vesicles and vacuolar elements, making
it a pivotal component of yeast cell polarization.

DOI: 10.1038/35023024 
PMID: 10984058  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):1009-12.

The APC tumour suppressor has a nuclear export function.

Rosin-Arbesfeld R(1), Townsley F, Bienz M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, UK.

The adenomatous polpyposis coli (APC) protein is mutated in most colorectal
tumours. Nearly all APC mutations are truncations, and many of these terminate in
the mutation cluster region located halfway through the protein. In cancer cells 
expressing mutant APC, beta-catenin is stabilized and translocates into the
nucleus to act as a transcriptional co-activator of T-cell factor. During normal 
development, APC also promotes the destabilization of beta-catenin and Drosophila
Armadillo. It does so by binding to the Axin complex which earmarks
beta-catenin/Armadillo for degradation by the proteasome pathway. APC has a
regulatory role in this process, which is poorly understood. Here we show that
APC contains highly conserved nuclear export signals 3' adjacent to the mutation 
cluster region that enable it to exit from the nucleus. This ability is lost in
APC mutant cancer cells, and we provide evidence that beta-catenin accumulates in
the nucleus as a result. Thus, the ability of APC to exit from the nucleus
appears to be critical for its tumour suppressor function.

DOI: 10.1038/35023016 
PMID: 10984057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):1005-9.

Effects of oncogenic mutations in Smoothened and Patched can be reversed by
cyclopamine.

Taipale J(1), Chen JK, Cooper MK, Wang B, Mann RK, Milenkovic L, Scott MP, Beachy
PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):944-5.

Basal cell carcinoma, medulloblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma and other human tumours
are associated with mutations that activate the proto-oncogene Smoothened (SMO)
or that inactivate the tumour suppressor Patched (PTCH). Smoothened and Patched
mediate the cellular response to the Hedgehog (Hh) secreted protein signal, and
oncogenic mutations affecting these proteins cause excess activity of the Hh
response pathway. Here we show that the plant-derived teratogen cyclopamine,
which inhibits the Hh response, is a potential 'mechanism-based' therapeutic
agent for treatment of these tumours. We show that cyclopamine or synthetic
derivatives with improved potency block activation of the Hh response pathway and
abnormal cell growth associated with both types of oncogenic mutation. Our
results also indicate that cyclopamine may act by influencing the balance between
active and inactive forms of Smoothened.

DOI: 10.1038/35023008 
PMID: 10984056  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):1001-5.

A voltage-dependent channel involved in nutrient uptake by red blood cells
infected with the malaria parasite.

Desai SA(1), Bezrukov SM, Zimmerberg J.

Author information: 
(1)The Laboratory of Parasitic Diseases, National Institute of Allergy and
Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892,
USA. sdesai@niaid.nih.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):949, 951.

Growth of the malaria parasite in human red blood cells (RBCs) is accompanied by 
an increased uptake of many solutes including anions, sugars, purines, amino
acids and organic cations. Although the pharmacological properties and
selectivity of this uptake suggest that a chloride channel is involved, the
precise mechanism has not been identified. Moreover, the location of this uptake 
in the infected RBC is unknown because tracer studies are complicated by possible
uptake through fluid-phase pinocytosis or membranous ducts. Here we have studied 
the permeability of infected RBCs using the whole-cell voltage-clamp method. With
this method, uninfected RBCs had ohmic whole-cell conductances of less than 100
pS, consistent with their low tracer permeabilities. In contrast,
trophozoite-infected RBCs exhibited voltage-dependent, non-saturating currents
that were 150-fold larger, predominantly carried by anions and abruptly abolished
by channel blockers. Patch-clamp measurements and spectral analysis confirmed
that a small (< 10 pS) ion channel on the infected RBC surface, present at about 
1,000 copies per cell, is responsible for these currents. Because its
pharmacological properties and substrate selectivities match those seen with
tracer studies, this channel accounts for the increased uptake of small solutes
in infected RBCs. The surface location of this new channel and its permeability
to organic solutes needed for parasite growth indicate that it may have a primary
role in a sequential diffusive pathway for parasite nutrient acquisition.

DOI: 10.1038/35023000 
PMID: 10984055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):998-1001.

A role for the C3a anaphylatoxin receptor in the effector phase of asthma.

Humbles AA(1), Lu B, Nilsson CA, Lilly C, Israel E, Fujiwara Y, Gerard NP, Gerard
C.

Author information: 
(1)Ina Sue Perlmutter Laboratory, Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease of the airways and lung mucosa with a
strong correlation to atopy and acquired (IgE) immunity. However, many features
of bronchial asthma, such as smooth muscle contraction, mucus secretion and
recruitment of inflammatory cells, are consistent with the actions of complement 
anaphylatoxins, in particular C3a and C5a. Complement activation forms a central 
core of innate immune defence against mucosal bacteria, viruses, fungi, helminths
and other pathogens. As a system of 'pattern-recognition molecules', foreign
surface antigens and immune complexes lead to a proteolytic cascade culminating
in a lytic membrane attack. The anaphylatoxins C3a and C5a are liberated as
activation byproducts and are potent pro-inflammatory mediators that bind to
specific cell surface receptors and cause leukocyte activation, smooth muscle
contraction and vascular permeability. Here we show that in a murine model of
allergic airway disease, genetic deletion of the C3a receptor protects against
the changes in lung physiology seen after allergen challenge. Furthermore, human 
asthmatics develop significant levels of ligand C3a following intra-pulmonary
deposition of allergen, but not saline. We propose that, in addition to acquired 
immune responses, the innate immune system and complement (C3a in particular) are
involved in the pathogenesis of asthma.

DOI: 10.1038/35023175 
PMID: 10984054  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):995-8.

The relative metabolic demand of inhibition and excitation.

Waldvogel D(1), van Gelderen P, Muellbacher W, Ziemann U, Immisch I, Hallett M.

Author information: 
(1)Human Motor Control Section, NINDS, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

By using the (14C)2-deoxyglucose method, inhibition has been shown to be a
metabolically active process at the level of the synapse. This is supported by
recent results from magnetic resonance spectroscopy that related the changes in
neuroenergetics occurring with functional activation to neurotransmitter cycling.
However, inhibitory synapses are less numerous and strategically better located
than excitatory synapses, indicating that inhibition may be more efficient, and
therefore less energy-consuming, than excitation. Here we test this hypothesis
using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging in volunteers whose
motor cortex was inhibited during the no-go condition of a go/no-go task, as
demonstrated by transcranial magnetic stimulation. Unlike excitation, inhibition 
evoked no measurable change in the blood-oxygenation-level-dependent signal in
the motor cortex, indicating that inhibition is less metabolically demanding.
Therefore, the 'activation' seen in functional imaging studies probably results
from excitation rather than inhibition.

DOI: 10.1038/35023171 
PMID: 10984053  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):992-5.

Ant-like task allocation and recruitment in cooperative robots.

Krieger MJ(1), Billeter JB, Keller L.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Ecology, University of Lausanne, Switzerland.

One of the greatest challenges in robotics is to create machines that are able to
interact with unpredictable environments in real time. A possible solution may be
to use swarms of robots behaving in a self-organized manner, similar to workers
in an ant colony. Efficient mechanisms of division of labour, in particular
series-parallel operation and transfer of information among group members, are
key components of the tremendous ecological success of ants. Here we show that
the general principles regulating division of labour in ant colonies indeed allow
the design of flexible, robust and effective robotic systems. Groups of robots
using ant-inspired algorithms of decentralized control techniques foraged more
efficiently and maintained higher levels of group energy than single robots. But 
the benefits of group living decreased in larger groups, most probably because of
interference during foraging. Intriguingly, a similar relationship between group 
size and efficiency has been documented in social insects. Moreover, when food
items were clustered, groups where robots could recruit other robots in an
ant-like manner were more efficient than groups without information transfer,
suggesting that group dynamics of swarms of robots may follow rules similar to
those governing social insects.

DOI: 10.1038/35023164 
PMID: 10984052  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):989-92.

The role of microbes in accretion, lamination and early lithification of modern
marine stromatolites.

Reid RP(1), Visscher PT, Decho AW, Stolz JF, Bebout BM, Dupraz C, Macintyre IG,
Paerl HW, Pinckney JL, Prufert-Bebout L, Steppe TF, DesMarais DJ.

Collaborators: Bebout BM(2), DesMarais DJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)MGG-RSMAS, University of Miami, Florida 33149, USA. preid@rsmas.miami.edu
(2)NASA ARC

For three billion years, before the Cambrian diversification of life, laminated
carbonate build-ups called stromatolites were widespread in shallow marine seas. 
These ancient structures are generally thought to be microbial in origin and
potentially preserve evidence of the Earth's earliest biosphere. Despite their
evolutionary significance, little is known about stromatolite formation,
especially the relative roles of microbial and environmental factors in
stromatolite accretion. Here we show that growth of modern marine stromatolites
represents a dynamic balance between sedimentation and intermittent lithification
of cyanobacterial mats. Periods of rapid sediment accretion, during which
stromatolite surfaces are dominated by pioneer communities of gliding filamentous
cyanobacteria, alternate with hiatal intervals. These discontinuities in
sedimentation are characterized by development of surface films of exopolymer and
subsequent heterotrophic bacterial decomposition, forming thin crusts of
microcrystalline carbonate. During prolonged hiatal periods, climax communities
develop, which include endolithic coccoid cyanobacteria. These coccoids modify
the sediment, forming thicker lithified laminae. Preservation of lithified layers
at depth creates millimetre-scale lamination. This simple model of modern marine 
stromatolite growth may be applicable to ancient stromatolites.

DOI: 10.1038/35023158 
PMID: 10984051  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):985-8.

Density cycles and an offspring quantity and quality game driven by natural
selection.

Sinervo B(1), Svensson E, Comendant T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California,
Santa Cruz 95064, USA. sinervo@biology.ucsc.edu

A long-standing hypothesis posits that natural selection can favour two female
strategies when density cycles. At low density, females producing many smaller
progeny are favoured when the intrinsic rate of increase, r, governs population
growth. At peak density, females producing fewer, high-quality, progeny are
favoured when the carrying capacity, K, is exceeded and the population crashes.
Here we report on the first example of a genetic r versus K selection game that
promotes stable population cycles in lizards. Decade-long fitness studies and
game theory demonstrated that two throat-colour morphs were refined by selection 
in which the strength of natural selection varied with density. Orange-throated
females, r strategists, produced many eggs and were favoured at low density.
Conversely, yellow-throated females, K strategists, produced large eggs and were 
favoured at high density. Progeny size should also be under negative
frequency-dependent selection in that large progeny will have a survival
advantage when rare, but the advantage disappears when they become common. We
confirmed this prediction by seeding field plots with rare and common giant
hatchlings. Thus, intrinsic causes of frequency- and density-dependent selection 
promotes an evolutionary game with two-generation oscillations.

DOI: 10.1038/35023149 
PMID: 10984050  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):981-5.

Diagenetic origin of quartz silt in mudstones and implications for silica
cycling.

Schieber J(1), Krinsley D, Riciputi L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology, University of Texas at Arlington, 76019, USA.
schieber@uta.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):951-3.

Mudstone--the most abundant sedimentary rock type, composed primarily of clay- or
silt-sized particles--contains most of the quartz found in sedimentary rocks.
These quartz grains, which are chemically and mechanically resistant and
therefore preserve their characteristics well, have long been considered to be
derived from the continental crust. Here we analyse quartz silt from black shales
in the eastern USA, dating back to the Late Devonian period (about 370 million
years ago), using backscattered electron and cathodoluminescence imaging and
measure oxygen isotopes with an ion probe. Our results indicate that up to 100%
of the quartz silt in our samples does not originate from the continental crust. 
Instead, it appears to have precipitated early in diagenesis in algal cysts and
other pore spaces, with silica derived from the dissolution of opaline skeletons 
of planktonic organisms, such as radiolaria and diatoms. Transformation of early 
diatoms into in situ quartz silt might explain the time gap between the earliest 
fossil occurrences of diatoms about 120 Myr ago and molecular evidence for a much
earlier appearance between 266 or even 500 Myr ago. Moreover, if many other
mudstone successions show similarly high proportions of in situ
precipitated--rather than detrital--quartz silt, the sedimentary record in
mudstones may have been misinterpreted in the past, with consequences for our
estimates of palaeoproductivity as well as our perceptions of the dynamics and
magnitude of global biogeochemical cycling of silica.

DOI: 10.1038/35023143 
PMID: 10984049  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):978-81.

Acclimation of ecosystem CO2 exchange in the Alaskan Arctic in response to
decadal climate warming

Oechel WC(1), Vourlitis GL, Hastings SJ, Zulueta RC, Hinzman L, Kane D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, San Diego State University, California 92182-4614, USA.
oechel@sunstroke.sdsu.edu

Long-term sequestration of carbon in Alaskan Arctic tundra ecosystems was
reversed by warming and drying of the climate in the early 1980s, resulting in
substantial losses of terrestrial carbon. But recent measurements suggest that
continued warming and drying has resulted in diminished CO2 efflux, and in some
cases, summer CO2 sink activity. Here we compile summer CO2 flux data for two
Arctic ecosystems from 1960 to the end of 1998. The results show that a return to
summer sink activity has come during the warmest and driest period observed over 
the past four decades, and indicates a previously undemonstrated capacity for
ecosystems to metabolically adjust to long-term (decadal or longer) changes in
climate. The mechanisms involved are likely to include changes in nutrient
cycling, physiological acclimation, and population and community reorganization. 
Nevertheless, despite the observed acclimation, the Arctic ecosystems studied are
still annual net sources of CO2 to the atmosphere of at least 40 g C m(-2)
yr(-1), due to winter release of CO2, implying that further climate change may
still exacerbate CO2 emissions from Arctic ecosystems.

DOI: 10.1038/35023137 
PMID: 10984048 


334. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):974-8.

Automatic design and manufacture of robotic lifeforms.

Lipson H(1), Pollack JB.

Author information: 
(1)Computer Science Department, Volen Center for Complex Systems, Brandeis
University, Waltham, Massachusetts 02454, USA. lipson@cs.bradeis.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):945, 947.

Biological life is in control of its own means of reproduction, which generally
involves complex, autocatalysing chemical reactions. But this autonomy of design 
and manufacture has not yet been realized artificially. Robots are still
laboriously designed and constructed by teams of human engineers, usually at
considerable expense. Few robots are available because these costs must be
absorbed through mass production, which is justified only for toys, weapons and
industrial systems such as automatic teller machines. Here we report the results 
of a combined computational and experimental approach in which simple
electromechanical systems are evolved through simulations from basic building
blocks (bars, actuators and artificial neurons); the 'fittest' machines (defined 
by their locomotive ability) are then fabricated robotically using rapid
manufacturing technology. We thus achieve autonomy of design and construction
using evolution in a 'limited universe' physical simulation coupled to automatic 
fabrication.

DOI: 10.1038/35023115 
PMID: 10984047  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):970-4.

Organoplatinum crystals for gas-triggered switches

Albrecht M(1), Lutz M, Spek AL, van Koten G.

Author information: 
(1)Debye Institute, Department of Metal-Mediated Synthesis, Utrecht University,
The Netherlands.

Considerable effort is being devoted to the fabrication of nanoscale devices.
Molecular machines, motors and switches have been made, generally operating in
solution, but for most device applications (such as electronics and
opto-electronics), a maximal degree of order and regularity is required.
Crystalline materials would be excellent systems for these purposes, as crystals 
comprise a vast number of self-assembled molecules, with a perfectly ordered
three-dimensional structure. In non-porous crystals, however, the molecules are
densely packed and any change in them (due, for example, to a reaction) is likely
to destroy the crystal and its properties. Here we report the controlled and
fully reversible crystalline-state reaction of gaseous SO2 with non-porous
crystalline materials consisting of organoplatinum molecules. This process,
including repetitive expansion-reduction sequences (on gas uptake and release) of
the crystal lattice, modifies the structures of these molecules without affecting
their crystallinity. The process is based on the incorporation of SO2 into the
colourless crystals and its subsequent liberation from the orange adducts by
reversible bond formation and cleavage. We therefore expect that these
crystalline materials will find applications for gas storage devices and as
opto-electronic switches.

DOI: 10.1038/35023107 
PMID: 10984046 


336. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):968-70.

Quantum correlation among photons from a single quantum dot at room temperature

Michler P(1), Imamoglu A, Mason MD, Carson PJ, Strouse GF, Buratto SK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California,
Santa Barbara 93106, USA.

Maxwell's equations successfully describe the statistical properties of
fluorescence from an ensemble of atoms or semiconductors in one or more
dimensions. But quantization of the radiation field is required to explain the
correlations of light generated by a single two-level quantum emitter, such as an
atom, ion or single molecule. The observation of photon antibunching in resonance
fluorescence from a single atom unequivocally demonstrated the non-classical
nature of radiation. Here we report the experimental observation of photon
antibunching from an artificial system--a single cadmium selenide quantum dot at 
room temperature. Apart from providing direct evidence for a solid-state
non-classical light source, this result proves that a single quantum dot acts
like an artificial atom, with a discrete anharmonic spectrum. In contrast, we
find the photon-emission events from a cluster of several dots to be
uncorrelated.

DOI: 10.1038/35023100 
PMID: 10984045 


337. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):965-8.

Resonance as a measure of pairing correlations in the high-Tc superconductor
YBa2Cu3O6.6

Dai P(1), Mook HA, Aeppli G, Hayden SM, Dogan F.

Author information: 
(1)Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Tennessee 37831-6393, USA. piq@ornl.gov

One of the most striking properties of the high-transition-temperature (high-Tc) 
superconductors is that they are all derived from insulating antiferromagnetic
parent compounds. The intimate relationship between magnetism and
superconductivity in these copper oxide materials has intrigued researchers from 
the outset, because it does not exist in conventional superconductors. Evidence
for this link comes from neutron-scattering experiments that show the unambiguous
presence of short-range antiferromagnetic correlations (excitations) in the
high-Tc superconductors. Even so, the role of such excitations in the pairing
mechanism for superconductivity is still a subject of controversy. For
YBa2Cu3O(6+x), where x controls the hole-doping level, the most prominent feature
in the magnetic excitation spectrum is a sharp resonance (refs 6-11). Here we
show that for underdoped YBa2Cu3O6.6, where x and Tc are below their optimal
values, modest magnetic fields suppress the resonance significantly, much more so
for fields approximately perpendicular to the CuO2 planes than for parallel
fields. Our results indicate that the resonance measures pairing and phase
coherence, suggesting that magnetism plays an important role in high-Tc
superconductivity. The persistence of a field effect above Tc favours mechanisms 
in which the superconducting electron pairs are pre-formed in the normal state of
underdoped copper oxide superconductors, awaiting transition to the
superconducting state.

DOI: 10.1038/35023094 
PMID: 10984044 


338. Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):959-64.

Complete genome sequence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1, an opportunistic
pathogen.

Stover CK(1), Pham XQ, Erwin AL, Mizoguchi SD, Warrener P, Hickey MJ, Brinkman
FS, Hufnagle WO, Kowalik DJ, Lagrou M, Garber RL, Goltry L, Tolentino E,
Westbrock-Wadman S, Yuan Y, Brody LL, Coulter SN, Folger KR, Kas A, Larbig K, Lim
R, Smith K, Spencer D, Wong GK, Wu Z, Paulsen IT, Reizer J, Saier MH, Hancock RE,
Lory S, Olson MV.

Author information: 
(1)PathoGenesis Corporation, Seattle, Washington 98119, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 31;406(6799):947-8.

Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a ubiquitous environmental bacterium that is one of the
top three causes of opportunistic human infections. A major factor in its
prominence as a pathogen is its intrinsic resistance to antibiotics and
disinfectants. Here we report the complete sequence of P. aeruginosa strain PAO1.
At 6.3 million base pairs, this is the largest bacterial genome sequenced, and
the sequence provides insights into the basis of the versatility and intrinsic
drug resistance of P. aeruginosa. Consistent with its larger genome size and
environmental adaptability, P. aeruginosa contains the highest proportion of
regulatory genes observed for a bacterial genome and a large number of genes
involved in the catabolism, transport and efflux of organic compounds as well as 
four potential chemotaxis systems. We propose that the size and complexity of the
P. aeruginosa genome reflect an evolutionary adaptation permitting it to thrive
in diverse environments and resist the effects of a variety of antimicrobial
substances.

DOI: 10.1038/35023079 
PMID: 10984043  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):916-9.

A deeply knotted protein structure and how it might fold.

Taylor WR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Mathematical Biology, National Institute for Medical Research,
Mill Hill, London, UK. wtaylor@nimr.mrc.ac.uk

The search for knots in protein has uncovered little that would cause Alexander
the Great to reach for his sword. Excluding knots formed by post-translational
crosslinking, the few proteins considered to be knotted form simple trefoil knots
with one end of the chain extending through a loop by only a few residues, ten in
the 'best' example. A knot in an open chain (as distinct from a closed circle) is
not rigorously defined and many weak protein knots disappear if the structure is 
viewed from a different angle. Here I describe a computer algorithm to detect
knots in open chains that is not sensitive to viewpoint and that can define the
region of the chain giving rise to the knot. It characterizes knots in proteins
by the number of residues that must be removed from each end to abolish the knot.
I applied this algorithm to the protein structure database and discovered a deep,
figure-of-eight knot in the plant protein acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase. I
propose a protein folding pathway that may explain how such a knot is formed.

DOI: 10.1038/35022623 
PMID: 10972297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):913-6.

A mutant of the motor protein kinesin that moves in both directions on
microtubules.

Endow SA(1), Higuchi H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North
Carolina 27710, USA. endow@duke.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):839-40.

Molecular motors move directionally to either the plus or the minus end of
microtubules or actin filaments. Kinesin moves towards microtubule plus ends,
whereas the kinesin-related Ncd motor moves to the minus ends. The 'neck'--the
region between the stalk and motor domain--is required for Ncd to move to
microtubule minus ends, but the mechanism underlying directional motor movement
is not understood. Here we show that a single amino-acid change in the Ncd neck
causes the motor to reverse directions and move with wild-type velocities towards
the plus or minus end; thus, the neck is functional but directionality is
defective. Mutation of a motor-core residue that touches the neck residue in
crystal structures also results in movement in both directions, indicating that
directed movement to the minus end requires interactions of the neck and motor
core. Low-density laser-trap assays show that a conformational change or working 
stroke of the Ncd motor is directional and biased towards the minus end, whereas 
that of the neck mutant occurs in either direction. We conclude that the
directional bias of the working stroke is dependent on neck/motor core
interactions. Absence of these interactions removes directional constraints and
permits movement in either direction.

DOI: 10.1038/35022617 
PMID: 10972296  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):910-3.

JOINTLESS is a MADS-box gene controlling tomato flower abscission zone
development.

Mao L(1), Begum D, Chuang HW, Budiman MA, Szymkowiak EJ, Irish EE, Wing RA.

Author information: 
(1)Clemson University Genomics Institute, South Carolina 29634, USA.

Abscission is a universal and dynamic process in plants whereby organs such as
leaves, flowers and fruit are shed, both during normal development, and in
response to tissue damage and stress. Shedding occurs by separation of cells in
anatomically distinct regions of the plant, called abscission zones (AZs). During
abscission, the plant hormone ethylene stimulates cells to produce enzymes that
degrade the middle lamella between cells in the AZ. The physiology and regulation
of abscission at fully developed AZs is well known, but the molecular biology
underlying their development is not. Here we report the first isolation of a gene
directly involved in the development of a functional plant AZ. Tomato plants with
the jointless mutation fail to develop AZs on their pedicels and so abscission of
flowers or fruit does not occur normally. We identify JOINTLESS as a new MADS-box
gene in a distinct phylogenetic clade separate from those functioning in floral
organs. We propose that a deletion in JOINTLESS accounts for the failure of
activation of pedicel AZ development in jointless tomato plants.

DOI: 10.1038/35022611 
PMID: 10972295  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):906-10.

Primary LAMP-2 deficiency causes X-linked vacuolar cardiomyopathy and myopathy
(Danon disease).

Nishino I(1), Fu J, Tanji K, Yamada T, Shimojo S, Koori T, Mora M, Riggs JE, Oh
SJ, Koga Y, Sue CM, Yamamoto A, Murakami N, Shanske S, Byrne E, Bonilla E, Nonaka
I, DiMauro S, Hirano M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.
nishino@ncnp.go.jp

"Lysosomal glycogen storage disease with normal acid maltase" which was
originally described by Danon et al., is characterized clinically by
cardiomyopathy, myopathy and variable mental retardation. The pathological
hallmark of the disease is intracytoplasmic vacuoles containing autophagic
material and glycogen in skeletal and cardiac muscle cells. Sarcolemmal proteins 
and basal lamina are associated with the vacuolar membranes. Here we report ten
unrelated patients, including one of the patients from the original case report, 
who have primary deficiencies of LAMP-2, a principal lysosomal membrane protein. 
From these results and the finding that LAMP-2-deficient mice manifest a similar 
vacuolar cardioskeletal myopathy, we conclude that primary LAMP-2 deficiency is
the cause of Danon disease. To our knowledge this is the first example of human
cardiopathy-myopathy that is caused by mutations in a lysosomal structural
protein rather than an enzymatic protein.

DOI: 10.1038/35022604 
PMID: 10972294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):902-6.

Accumulation of autophagic vacuoles and cardiomyopathy in LAMP-2-deficient mice.

Tanaka Y(1), Guhde G, Suter A, Eskelinen EL, Hartmann D, Lüllmann-Rauch R,
Janssen PM, Blanz J, von Figura K, Saftig P.

Author information: 
(1)Zentrum Biochemie und Molekulare Zellbiologie, Abt. Biochemie II, Universität 
Göttingen, Germany.

Lysosome-associated membrane protein-2 (LAMP-2) is a highly glycosylated protein 
and an important constituent of the lysosomal membrane. Here we show that LAMP-2 
deficiency in mice increases mortality between 20 and 40 days of age. The
surviving mice are fertile and have an almost normal life span.
Ultrastructurally, there is extensive accumulation of autophagic vacuoles in many
tissues including liver, pancreas, spleen, kidney and skeletal and heart muscle. 
In hepatocytes, the autophagic degradation of long-lived proteins is severely
impaired. Cardiac myocytes are ultrastructurally abnormal and heart contractility
is severely reduced. These findings indicate that LAMP-2 is critical for
autophagy. This theory is further substantiated by the finding that human LAMP-2 
deficiency causing Danon's disease is associated with the accumulation of
autophagic material in striated myocytes.

DOI: 10.1038/35022595 
PMID: 10972293  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):897-902.

Colorectal carcinomas in mice lacking the catalytic subunit of PI(3)Kgamma.

Sasaki T(1), Irie-Sasaki J, Horie Y, Bachmaier K, Fata JE, Li M, Suzuki A,
Bouchard D, Ho A, Redston M, Gallinger S, Khokha R, Mak TW, Hawkins PT, Stephens 
L, Scherer SW, Tsao M, Penninger JM.

Author information: 
(1)Ontario Cancer Institute, and Department of Medical Biophysics and Immunology,
University of Toronto, Canada.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2003 Dec 4;426(6966):584.

Comment in
    Nature. 2001 Oct 25;413(6858):796.

Phosphoinositide-3-OH kinases (PI(3)Ks) constitute a family of evolutionarily
conserved lipid kinases that regulate a vast array of fundamental cellular
responses, including proliferation, transformation, differentiation and
protection from apoptosis. PI(3)K-mediated activation of the cell survival kinase
PKB/Akt, and negative regulation of PI(3)K signalling by the tumour suppressor
PTEN (refs 3, 4) are key regulatory events in tumorigenesis. Thus, a model has
arisen that PI(3)Ks promote development of cancers. Here we report that genetic
inactivation of the p110gamma catalytic subunit of PI(3)Kgamma (ref. 8) leads to 
development of invasive colorectal adenocarcinomas in mice. In humans, p110gamma 
protein expression is lost in primary colorectal adenocarcinomas from patients
and in colon cancer cell lines. Overexpression of wild-type or kinase-dead
p110gamma in human colon cancer cells with mutations of the tumour suppressors
APC and p53, or the oncogenes beta-catenin and Ki-ras, suppressed tumorigenesis. 
Thus, loss of p110gamma in mice leads to spontaneous, malignant epithelial
tumours in the colorectum and p110gamma can block the growth of human colon
cancer cells.

DOI: 10.1038/35022585 
PMID: 10972292  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):893-7.

SLAM (CDw150) is a cellular receptor for measles virus.

Tatsuo H(1), Ono N, Tanaka K, Yanagi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, Faculty of Medicine, Kyushu University, Fukuoka,
Japan.

Measles virus continues to be a major killer of children, claiming roughly one
million lives a year. Measles virus infection causes profound immunosuppression, 
which makes measles patients susceptible to secondary infections accounting for
high morbidity and mortality. The Edmonston strain of measles virus, and vaccine 
strains derived from it, use as a cellular receptor human CD46 (refs 3, 4), which
is expressed on all nucleated cells; however, most clinical isolates of measles
virus cannot use CD46 as a receptor. Here we show that human SLAM (signalling
lymphocyte-activation molecule; also known as CDw150), a recently discovered
membrane glycoprotein expressed on some T and B cells, is a cellular receptor for
measles virus, including the Edmonston strain. Transfection with a human SLAM
complementary DNA enables non-susceptible cell lines to bind measles virus,
support measles virus replication and develop cytopathic effects. The
distribution of SLAM on various cell lines is consistent with their
susceptibility to clinical isolates of measles virus. The identification of SLAM 
as a receptor for measles virus opens the way to a better understanding of the
pathogenesis of measles virus infection, especially the immunosuppression induced
by measles virus.

DOI: 10.1038/35022579 
PMID: 10972291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):889-93.

Intracellular calcium dependence of transmitter release rates at a fast central
synapse.

Schneggenburger R(1), Neher E.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Membranbiophysik, Max-Planck-Institut für biophysikalische Chemie,
Göttingen, Germany. rschneg@gwdg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):835-6.

Calcium-triggered fusion of synaptic vesicles and neurotransmitter release are
fundamental signalling steps in the central nervous system. It is generally
assumed that fast transmitter release is triggered by elevations in intracellular
calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) to at least 100 microM near the sites of vesicle 
fusion. For synapses in the central nervous system, however, there are no
experimental estimates of this local [Ca2+]i signal. Here we show, by using
calcium ion uncaging in the large synaptic terminals of the calyx of Held, that
step-like elevations to only 10 microM [Ca2+]i induce fast transmitter release,
which depletes around 80% of a pool of available vesicles in less than 3 ms.
Kinetic analysis of transmitter release rates after [Ca2+]i steps revealed the
rate constants for calcium binding and vesicle fusion. These show that transient 
(around 0.5 ms) local elevations of [Ca2+]i to peak values as low as 25 microM
can account for transmitter release during single presynaptic action potentials. 
The calcium sensors for vesicle fusion are far from saturation at normal release 
probability. This non-saturation, and the high intracellular calcium
cooperativity in triggering vesicle fusion, make fast synaptic transmission very 
sensitive to modulation by changes in local [Ca2+]i.

DOI: 10.1038/35022702 
PMID: 10972290  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):886-9.

The Drosophila Netrin receptor Frazzled guides axons by controlling Netrin
distribution.

Hiramoto M(1), Hiromi Y, Giniger E, Hotta Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Genetics, National Institute of Genetics, Graduate
University for Advanced Studies, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):841, 843.

Netrin is a secreted protein that can act as a chemotropic axon guidance cue. Two
classes of Netrin receptor, DCC and UNC-5 (refs 6-9), are required for axon
guidance and are thought to mediate Netrin signals in growth cones through their 
cytoplasmic domains. However, in the guidance of Drosophila photoreceptor axons, 
the DCC orthologue Frazzled is required not in the photoreceptor neurons but
instead in their targets, indicating that Frazzled also has a non-cell-autonomous
function. Here we show that Frazzled can capture Netrin and 'present' it for
recognition by other receptors. Moreover, Frazzled itself is actively localized
within the axon through its cytoplasmic domain, and thereby rearranges Netrin
protein into a spatial pattern completely different from the pattern of Netrin
gene expression. Frazzled-dependent guidance of one pioneer neuron in the central
nervous system can be accounted for solely on the basis of this ability of
Frazzled to control Netrin distribution, and not by Frazzled signalling. We
propose a model of patterning mechanism in which a receptor rearranges secreted
ligand molecules, thereby creating positional information for other receptors.

DOI: 10.1038/35022571 
PMID: 10972289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):882-5.

Collapse and recovery of marine fishes.

Hutchings JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.
jhutch@mscs.dal.ca

Overexploitation and subsequent collapse of marine fishes has focused attention
on the ability of affected populations to recover to former abundance levels and 
on the degree to which their persistence is threatened by extinction. Although
potential for recovery has been assessed indirectly, actual changes in population
size following long-term declines have not been examined empirically. Here I show
that there is very little evidence for rapid recovery from prolonged declines, in
contrast to the perception that marine fishes are highly resilient to large
population reductions. With the possible exception of herring and related species
that mature early in life and are fished with highly selective equipment, my
analysis of 90 stocks reveals that many gadids (for example, cod, haddock) and
other non-clupeids (for example, flatfishes) have experienced little, if any,
recovery as much as 15 years after 45-99% reductions in reproductive biomass.
Although the effects of overfishing on single species may generally be
reversible, the actual time required for recovery appears to be considerable. To 
exempt marine fishes from existing criteria used to assign extinction risk would 
be inconsistent with precautionary approaches to fisheries management and the
conservation of marine biodiversity.

DOI: 10.1038/35022565 
PMID: 10972288  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):879-82.

Evidence for iron, copper and zinc complexation as multinuclear sulphide clusters
in oxic rivers

Rozan TF(1), Lassman ME, Ridge DP, Luther GW 3rd.

Author information: 
(1)College of Marine Studies, University of Delaware, 19958, USA. trozan@udel.edu

The availability and toxicity of trace metals in fresh water are known to be
regulated by the complexation of free metal ions with dissolved organic matter.
The potential role of inorganic sulphides in binding trace metals has been
largely ignored because of the reduced persistence of sulphides in these oxic
waters. However, nanomolar concentrations of copper and zinc sulphides have been 
observed in four rivers in Connecticut and Maryland. Here we report dissolved (< 
0.2 microm particle diameter) sulphide concentrations ranging up to 600 nM, with 
more than 90% being complexed by copper, iron and zinc. These complexes account
for up to 20% of the total dissolved Fe and Zn and 45% of the total dissolved Cu.
Fourier transform mass spectrometry reveals that these complexes are not simple
M(HS)+ protonated species but are higher-order unprotonated clusters (M3S3, M4S6,
M2S4), similar to those found in laboratory solutions and bio-inorganic
molecules. These extended structures have high stability constants and are
resistant to oxidation and dissociation, which may help control the toxicity of
these and other less abundant, but more toxic, trace metals, such as silver,
cadmium and mercury.

DOI: 10.1038/35022561 
PMID: 10972287 


350. Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):877-9.

Changes in Greenland ice sheet elevation attributed primarily to snow
accumulation variability

McConnell JR(1), Arthern RJ, Mosley-Thompson E, Davis CH, Bales RC, Thomas R,
Burkhart JF, Kyne JD.

Author information: 
(1)Desert Research Institute, University & Community College System of Nevada,
Reno 89512, USA. jmcconn@dri.edu

The response of grounded ice sheets to a changing climate critically influences
possible future changes in sea level. Recent satellite surveys over southern
Greenland show little overall elevation change at higher elevations, but large
spatial variability. Using satellite studies alone, it is not possible to
determine the geophysical processes responsible for the observed elevation
changes and to decide if recent rates of change exceed the natural variability.
Here we derive changes in ice-sheet elevation in southern Greenland, for the
years 1978-88, using a physically based model of firn densification and records
of annual snow accumulation reconstructed from 12 ice cores at high elevation.
Our patterns of accumulation-driven elevation change agree closely with
contemporaneous satellite measurements of ice-sheet elevation change, and we
therefore attribute the changes observed in 1978-88 to variability in snow
accumulation. Similar analyses of longer ice-core records show that in this
decade the Greenland ice sheet exhibited typical variability at high elevations, 
well within the long-term natural variability. Our results indicate that a better
understanding of ice-sheet mass changes will require long-term measurements of
both surface elevation and snow accumulation.

DOI: 10.1038/35022555 
PMID: 10972286 


351. Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):874-6.

A stable argon compound

Khriachtchev L(1), Pettersson M, Runeberg N, Lundell J, Rasanen M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Helsinki, Finland.

The noble gases have a particularly stable electronic configuration, comprising
fully filled s and p valence orbitals. This makes these elements relatively
non-reactive, and they exist at room temperature as monatomic gases. Pauling
predicted in 1933 that the heavier noble gases, whose valence electrons are
screened by core electrons and thus less strongly bound, could form stable
molecules. This prediction was verified in 1962 by the preparation of xenon
hexafluoroplatinate, XePtF6, the first compound to contain a noble-gas atom.
Since then, a range of different compounds containing radon, xenon and krypton
have been theoretically anticipated and prepared. Although the lighter noble
gases neon, helium and argon are also expected to be reactive under suitable
conditions, they remain the last three long-lived elements of the periodic table 
for which no stable compound is known. Here we report that the photolysis of
hydrogen fluoride in a solid argon matrix leads to the formation of argon
fluorohydride (HArF), which we have identified by probing the shift in the
position of vibrational bands on isotopic substitution using infrared
spectroscopy. Extensive ab initio calculations indicate that HArF is
intrinsically stable, owing to significant ionic and covalent contributions to
its bonding, thus confirming computational predictions that argon should form a
stable hydride species with properties similar to those of the analogous xenon
and krypton compounds reported before.

DOI: 10.1038/35022551 
PMID: 10972285 


352. Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):871-4.

Multiscale modelling of plastic flow localization in irradiated materials

de la Rubia TD(1), Zbib HM, Khraishi TA, Wirth BD, Victoria M, Caturla MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, California 94550, USA.
delarubia@llnl.gov

The irradiation of metals by energetic particles causes significant degradation
of the mechanical properties, most notably an increased yield stress and
decreased ductility, often accompanied by plastic flow localization. Such effects
limit the lifetime of pressure vessels in nuclear power plants, and constrain the
choice of materials for fusion-based alternative energy sources. Although these
phenomena have been known for many years, the underlying fundamental mechanisms
and their relation to the irradiation field have not been clearly demonstrated.
Here we use three-dimensional multiscale simulations of irradiated metals to
reveal the mechanisms underlying plastic flow localization in defect-free
channels. We observe dislocation pinning by irradiation-induced clusters of
defects, subsequent unpinning as defects are absorbed by the dislocations, and
cross-slip of the latter as the stress is increased. The width of the plastic
flow channels is limited by the interaction among opposing dislocation dipole
segments and the remaining defect clusters.

DOI: 10.1038/35022544 
PMID: 10972284 


353. Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):868-71.

Liquid crystal phase transitions in suspensions of polydisperse plate-like
particles

van der Kooij FM(1), Kassapidou K, Lekkerkerker HN.

Author information: 
(1)Van't Hoff Laboratory for Physical and Colloid Chemistry, Debye Institute,
Utrecht University, The Netherlands.

Colloidal suspensions that form periodic self-assembling structures on
sub-micrometre scales are of potential technological interest; for example,
three-dimensional arrangements of spheres in colloidal crystals might serve as
photonic materials, intended to manipulate light. Colloidal particles with
non-spherical shapes (such as rods and plates) are of particular interest because
of their ability to form liquid crystals. Nematic liquid crystals possess
orientational order; smectic and columnar liquid crystals additionally exhibit
positional order (in one or two dimensions respectively). However, such
positional ordering may be inhibited in polydisperse colloidal suspensions. Here 
we describe a suspension of plate-like colloids that shows isotropic, nematic and
columnar phases on increasing the particle concentration. We find that the
columnar two-dimensional crystal persists for a polydispersity of up to 25%, with
a cross-over to smectic-like ordering at very high particle concentrations. Our
results imply that liquid crystalline order in synthetic mesoscopic materials may
be easier to achieve than previously thought.

DOI: 10.1038/35022535 
PMID: 10972283 


354. Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):865-8.

Nitride semiconductors free of electrostatic fields for efficient white
light-emitting diodes

Waltereit P(1), Brandt O, Trampert A, Grahn HT, Menniger J, Ramsteiner M, Reiche 
M, Ploog KH.

Author information: 
(1)Paul-Drude-Institut fur Festkorperelektronik, Berlin, Germany.
walter@pdi-berlin.de

Compact solid-state lamps based on light-emitting diodes (LEDs) are of current
technological interest as an alternative to conventional light bulbs. The
brightest LEDs available so far emit red light and exhibit higher luminous
efficiency than fluorescent lamps. If this luminous efficiency could be
transferred to white LEDs, power consumption would be dramatically reduced, with 
great economic and ecological consequences. But the luminous efficiency of
existing white LEDs is still very low, owing to the presence of electrostatic
fields within the active layers. These fields are generated by the spontaneous
and piezoelectric polarization along the [0001] axis of hexagonal group-III
nitrides--the commonly used materials for light generation. Unfortunately, as
this crystallographic orientation corresponds to the natural growth direction of 
these materials deposited on currently available substrates. Here we demonstrate 
that the epitaxial growth of GaN/(Al,Ga)N on tetragonal LiAlO2 in a non-polar
direction allows the fabrication of structures free of electrostatic fields,
resulting in an improved quantum efficiency. We expect that this approach will
pave the way towards highly efficient white LEDs.

DOI: 10.1038/35022529 
PMID: 10972282 


355. Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):863-5.

Cooper instability of composite fermions

Scarola VW(1), Park K, Jain JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park
16802, USA.

When confined to two dimensions and exposed to a strong magnetic field, electrons
screen the Coulomb interaction in a topological fashion; they capture an even
number of quantum vortices and transform into particles called 'composite
fermions' (refs 1-3). The fractional quantum Hall effect occurs in such a system 
when the ratio (or 'filling factor, nu) of the number of electrons and the
degeneracy of their spin-split energy states (the Landau levels) takes on
particular values. The Landau level filling nu = 1/2 corresponds to a metallic
state in which the composite fermions form a gapless Fermi sea. But for nu = 5/2,
a fractional quantum Hall effect is observed instead; this unexpected result is
the subject of considerable debate and controversy. Here we investigate the
difference between these states by considering the theoretical problem of two
composite fermions on top of a fully polarized Fermi sea of composite fermions.
We find that they undergo Cooper pairing to form a p-wave bound state at nu =
5/2, but not at nu = 1/2. In effect, the repulsive Coulomb interaction between
electrons is overscreened in the nu = 5/2 state by the formation of composite
fermions, resulting in a weak, attractive interaction.

DOI: 10.1038/35022524 
PMID: 10972281 


356. Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):855-62.

Structural and biochemical basis of apoptotic activation by Smac/DIABLO.

Chai J(1), Du C, Wu JW, Kyin S, Wang X, Shi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Princeton University, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Apoptosis (programmed cell death), an essential process in the development and
homeostasis of metazoans, is carried out by caspases. The mitochondrial protein
Smac/DIABLO performs a critical function in apoptosis by eliminating the
inhibitory effect of IAPs (inhibitor of apoptosis proteins) on caspases. Here we 
show that Smac/DIABLO promotes not only the proteolytic activation of
procaspase-3 but also the enzymatic activity of mature caspase-3, both of which
depend upon its ability to interact physically with IAPs. The crystal structure
of Smac/DIABLO at 2.2 A resolution reveals that it homodimerizes through an
extensive hydrophobic interface. Missense mutations inactivating this dimeric
interface significantly compromise the function of Smac/DIABLO. As in the
Drosophila proteins Reaper, Grim and Hid, the amino-terminal amino acids of
Smac/DIABLO are indispensable for its function, and a seven-residue peptide
derived from the amino terminus promotes procaspase-3 activation in vitro. These 
results establish an evolutionarily conserved structural and biochemical basis
for the activation of apoptosis by Smac/DIABLO.

DOI: 10.1038/35022514 
PMID: 10972280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):849-54.

Transport, capture and exocytosis of single synaptic vesicles at active zones.

Zenisek D(1), Steyer JA, Almers W.

Author information: 
(1)Vollum Institute, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland 97201, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):835-6.

To sustain high rates of transmitter release, synaptic terminals must rapidly
re-supply vesicles to release sites and prime them for exocytosis. Here we
describe imaging of single synaptic vesicles near the plasma membrane of live
ribbon synaptic terminals. Vesicles were captured at small, discrete active zones
near the terminal surface. An electric stimulus caused them to undergo rapid
exocytosis, seen as the release of a fluorescent lipid from the vesicles into the
plasma membrane. Next, vesicles held in reserve about 20 nm from the plasma
membrane advanced to exocytic sites, and became release-ready 250 ms later.
Apparently a specific structure holds vesicles at an active zone to bring
v-SNAREs and t-SNAREs, the proteins that mediate vesicle fusion, within striking 
distance of each other, and then allows the triggered movement of such vesicles
to the plasma membrane.

DOI: 10.1038/35022500 
PMID: 10972279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):799-803.

Microbial genome sequencing.

Fraser CM(1), Eisen JA, Salzberg SL.

Author information: 
(1)The Institute for Genomic Research, Rockville, Maryland 20850, USA.

Complete genome sequences of 30 microbial species have been determined during the
past five years, and work in progress indicates that the complete sequences of
more than 100 further microbial species will be available in the next two to four
years. These results have revealed a tremendous amount of information on the
physiology and evolution of microbial species, and should provide novel
approaches to the diagnosis and treatment of infectious disease.

DOI: 10.1038/35021244 
PMID: 10963611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):793-8.

Vaccines against intracellular infections requiring cellular immunity.

Seder RA(1), Hill AV.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Immunology Section, Laboratory of Clinical Investigation, National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA. rseder@niaid.nih.gov

Vaccines against a variety of infectious diseases represent one of the great
triumphs of medicine. The immune correlates of protection induced by most current
vaccines seem to be mediated by long-lived humoral immune responses. By contrast,
there are no currently available vaccines that are uniformly effective for
diseases such as HIV, malaria and tuberculosis, in which the cellular immune
response might be crucial in mediating protection. Here we examine the mechanisms
by which long-lived cellular immune responses are generated and maintained in
vivo. We then discuss current approaches for vaccination against diseases in
which cellular immune responses are important for protection.

DOI: 10.1038/35021239 
PMID: 10963610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):788-92.

CD1-restricted T-cell responses and microbial infection.

Park SH(1), Bendelac A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Princeton University, New Jersey 08544, USA.

CD1, a conserved family of major histocompatibility (MHC)-like glycoproteins in
mammals, specializes in capturing lipid rather than peptide antigen for
presentation to T lymphocytes. The principles and mechanisms of this newly
discovered immune strategy differ markedly from those governing classical
MHC-peptide presentation. They might be exploited for the design of new
lipid-based microbial vaccines and adjuvants.

DOI: 10.1038/35021233 
PMID: 10963609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


361. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):782-7.

Toll-like receptors in the induction of the innate immune response.

Aderem A(1), Ulevitch RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, University of Washington, Seattle 98195, USA.

The innate immune response is the first line of defence against infectious
disease. The principal challenge for the host is to detect the pathogen and mount
a rapid defensive response. A group of proteins that comprise the Toll or
Toll-like family of receptors perform this role in vertebrate and invertebrate
organisms. This reflects a remarkable conservation of function and it is
therefore not surprising that studies of the mechanism by which they act has
revealed new and important insights into host defence.

DOI: 10.1038/35021228 
PMID: 10963608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):775-81.

Molecular mechanisms that confer antibacterial drug resistance.

Walsh C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology Department, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Antibiotics--compounds that are literally 'against life'--are typically
antibacterial drugs, interfering with some structure or process that is essential
to bacterial growth or survival without harm to the eukaryotic host harbouring
the infecting bacteria. We live in an era when antibiotic resistance has spread
at an alarming rate and when dire predictions concerning the lack of effective
antibacterial drugs occur with increasing frequency. In this context it is
apposite to ask a few simple questions about these life-saving molecules. What
are antibiotics? Where do they come from? How do they work? Why do they stop
being effective? How do we find new antibiotics? And can we slow down the
development of antibiotic-resistant superbugs?

DOI: 10.1038/35021219 
PMID: 10963607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):768-74.

Pathogenic strategies of enteric bacteria.

Donnenberg MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Maryland, Baltimore 21201, USA.

Enteric bacteria use a limited array of macromolecular systems to implement
diverse pathogenic strategies. The cellular targets of several enteric virulence 
factors have recently been identified. The themes that have emerged from these
studies include the exploitation of molecules that regulate the actin
cytoskeleton and the activation of apoptotic pathways to serve the pathogen.

DOI: 10.1038/35021212 
PMID: 10963606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):762-7.

Changing patterns of infectious disease.

Cohen ML(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Bacterial and Mycotic Diseases, National Center for Infectious
Diseases, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia 30333,
USA.

Despite a century of often successful prevention and control efforts, infectious 
diseases remain an important global problem in public health, causing over 13
million deaths each year. Changes in society, technology and the microorganisms
themselves are contributing to the emergence of new diseases, the re-emergence of
diseases once controlled, and to the development of antimicrobial resistance. Two
areas of special concern in the twenty-first century are food-borne disease and
antimicrobial resistance. The effective control of infectious diseases in the new
millennium will require effective public health infrastructures that will rapidly
recognize and respond to them and will prevent emerging problems.

DOI: 10.1038/35021206 
PMID: 10963605  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):760-1.

On the particularity of pathogens.

Bloom BR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

In the elemental struggle between pathogenic microbes and the immune system of
the host, each strives for a unique advantage and thus each exploits its own
unique particularities in pathogenesis and protection. And each presumably
selects for the diversity that generally characterizes the wide range of
successful host-pathogen interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/35021204 
PMID: 10963604  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):752-7.

Potential for biomolecular imaging with femtosecond X-ray pulses.

Neutze R(1), Wouts R, van der Spoel D, Weckert E, Hajdu J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Biomedical Centre, Uppsala University, Sweden.

Sample damage by X-rays and other radiation limits the resolution of structural
studies on non-repetitive and non-reproducible structures such as individual
biomolecules or cells. Cooling can slow sample deterioration, but cannot
eliminate damage-induced sample movement during the time needed for conventional 
measurements. Analyses of the dynamics of damage formation suggest that the
conventional damage barrier (about 200 X-ray photons per A2 with X-rays of 12 keV
energy or 1 A wavelength) may be extended at very high dose rates and very short 
exposure times. Here we have used computer simulations to investigate the
structural information that can be recovered from the scattering of intense
femtosecond X-ray pulses by single protein molecules and small assemblies.
Estimations of radiation damage as a function of photon energy, pulse length,
integrated pulse intensity and sample size show that experiments using very high 
X-ray dose rates and ultrashort exposures may provide useful structural
information before radiation damage destroys the sample. We predict that such
ultrashort, high-intensity X-ray pulses from free-electron lasers that are
currently under development, in combination with container-free sample handling
methods based on spraying techniques, will provide a new approach to structural
determinations with X-rays.

DOI: 10.1038/35021099 
PMID: 10963603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):747-52.

Molecular portraits of human breast tumours.

Perou CM(1), Sørlie T, Eisen MB, van de Rijn M, Jeffrey SS, Rees CA, Pollack JR, 
Ross DT, Johnsen H, Akslen LA, Fluge O, Pergamenschikov A, Williams C, Zhu SX,
Lønning PE, Børresen-Dale AL, Brown PO, Botstein D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, California
94305, USA.

Human breast tumours are diverse in their natural history and in their
responsiveness to treatments. Variation in transcriptional programs accounts for 
much of the biological diversity of human cells and tumours. In each cell, signal
transduction and regulatory systems transduce information from the cell's
identity to its environmental status, thereby controlling the level of expression
of every gene in the genome. Here we have characterized variation in gene
expression patterns in a set of 65 surgical specimens of human breast tumours
from 42 different individuals, using complementary DNA microarrays representing
8,102 human genes. These patterns provided a distinctive molecular portrait of
each tumour. Twenty of the tumours were sampled twice, before and after a 16-week
course of doxorubicin chemotherapy, and two tumours were paired with a lymph node
metastasis from the same patient. Gene expression patterns in two tumour samples 
from the same individual were almost always more similar to each other than
either was to any other sample. Sets of co-expressed genes were identified for
which variation in messenger RNA levels could be related to specific features of 
physiological variation. The tumours could be classified into subtypes
distinguished by pervasive differences in their gene expression patterns.

DOI: 10.1038/35021093 
PMID: 10963602  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):742-7.

The Syk tyrosine kinase suppresses malignant growth of human breast cancer cells.

Coopman PJ(1), Do MT, Barth M, Bowden ET, Hayes AJ, Basyuk E, Blancato JK, Vezza 
PR, McLeskey SW, Mangeat PH, Mueller SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, and Vincent T. Lombardi Cancer Center, Georgetown 
University Medical School, Washington, DC 20007, USA.

Syk is a protein tyrosine kinase that is widely expressed in haematopoietic
cells. It is involved in coupling activated immunoreceptors to downstream
signalling events that mediate diverse cellular responses including
proliferation, differentiation and phagocytosis. Syk expression has been reported
in cell lines of epithelial origin, but its function in these cells remains
unknown. Here we show that Syk is commonly expressed in normal human breast
tissue, benign breast lesions and low-tumorigenic breast cancer cell lines. Syk
messenger RNA and protein, however, are low or undetectable in invasive breast
carcinoma tissue and cell lines. Transfection of wild-type Syk into a
Syk-negative breast cancer cell line markedly inhibited its tumour growth and
metastasis formation in athymic mice. Conversely, overexpression of a
kinase-deficient Syk in a Syk-positive breast cancer cell line significantly
increased its tumour incidence and growth. Suppression of tumour growth by the
reintroduction of Syk appeared to be the result of aberrant mitosis and
cytokinesis. We propose that Syk is a potent modulator of epithelial cell growth 
and a potential tumour suppressor in human breast carcinomas.

DOI: 10.1038/35021086 
PMID: 10963601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):739-42.

Progression of autoimmune diabetes driven by avidity maturation of a T-cell
population.

Amrani A(1), Verdaguer J, Serra P, Tafuro S, Tan R, Santamaria P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Infectious Diseases, Faculty of Medicine,
University of Calgary, Health Sciences Centre, Alberta, Canada.

For unknown reasons, autoimmune diseases such as type 1 diabetes develop after
prolonged periods of inflammation of mononuclear cells in target tissues. Here we
show that progression of pancreatic islet inflammation to overt diabetes in
nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice is driven by the 'avidity maturation' of a
prevailing, pancreatic beta-cell-specific T-lymphocyte population carrying the
CD8 antigen. This T-lymphocyte population recognizes two related peptides (NRP
and NRP-A7) in the context of H-2Kd class I molecules of the major
histocompatibility complex (MHC). As pre-diabetic NOD mice age, their
islet-associated CD8+ T lymphocytes contain increasing numbers of NRP-A7-reactive
cells, and these cells bind NRP-A7/H-2Kd tetramers with increased specificity,
increased avidity and longer half-lives. Repeated treatment of pre-diabetic NOD
mice with soluble NRP-A7 peptide blunts the avidity maturation of the
NRP-A7-reactive CD8+ T-cell population by selectively deleting those clonotypes
expressing T-cell receptors with the highest affinity and lowest dissociation
rates for peptide-MHC binding. This inhibits the local production of T cells that
are cytotoxic to beta cells, and halts the progression from severe insulitis to
diabetes. We conclude that avidity maturation of pathogenic T-cell populations
may be the key event in the progression of benign inflammation to overt disease
in autoimmunity.

DOI: 10.1038/35021081 
PMID: 10963600  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):735-8.

Persistence of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in macrophages and mice requires the
glyoxylate shunt enzyme isocitrate lyase.

McKinney JD(1), Höner zu Bentrup K, Muñoz-Elías EJ, Miczak A, Chen B, Chan WT,
Swenson D, Sacchettini JC, Jacobs WR Jr, Russell DG.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx,
New York 10461, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):683-5.

Mycobacterium tuberculosis claims more human lives each year than any other
bacterial pathogen. Infection is maintained in spite of acquired immunity and
resists eradication by antimicrobials. Despite an urgent need for new therapies
targeting persistent bacteria, our knowledge of bacterial metabolism throughout
the course of infection remains rudimentary. Here we report that persistence of
M. tuberculosis in mice is facilitated by isocitrate lyase (ICL), an enzyme
essential for the metabolism of fatty acids. Disruption of the icl gene
attenuated bacterial persistence and virulence in immune-competent mice without
affecting bacterial growth during the acute phase of infection. A link between
the requirement for ICL and the immune status of the host was established by the 
restored virulence of delta icl bacteria in interferon-gamma knockout mice. This 
link was apparent at the level of the infected macrophage: Activation of infected
macrophages increased expression of ICL, and the delta icl mutant was markedly
attenuated for survival in activated but not resting macrophages. These data
suggest that the metabolism of M. tuberculosis in vivo is profoundly influenced
by the host response to infection, an observation with important implications for
the treatment of chronic tuberculosis.

DOI: 10.1038/35021074 
PMID: 10963599  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):731-4.

Calcium channels activated by hydrogen peroxide mediate abscisic acid signalling 
in guard cells.

Pei ZM(1), Murata Y, Benning G, Thomine S, Klüsener B, Allen GJ, Grill E,
Schroeder JI.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, Cell and Developmental Biology, and Center for Molecular 
Genetics, University of California at San Diego, La Jolla 92093-0116, USA.

Drought is a major threat to agricultural production. Plants synthesize the
hormone abscisic acid (ABA) in response to drought, triggering a signalling
cascade in guard cells that results in stomatal closure, thus reducing water
loss. ABA triggers an increase in cytosolic calcium in guard cells ([Ca2+]cyt)
that has been proposed to include Ca2+ influx across the plasma membrane.
However, direct recordings of Ca2+ currents have been limited and the upstream
activation mechanisms of plasma membrane Ca2+ channels remain unknown. Here we
report activation of Ca2+-permeable channels in the plasma membrane of
Arabidopsis guard cells by hydrogen peroxide. The H2O2-activated Ca2+ channels
mediate both influx of Ca2+ in protoplasts and increases in [Ca2+]cyt in intact
guard cells. ABA induces the production of H2O2 in guard cells. If H2O2
production is blocked, ABA-induced closure of stomata is inhibited. Moreover,
activation of Ca2+ channels by H2O2 and ABA- and H2O2-induced stomatal closing
are disrupted in the recessive ABA-insensitive mutant gca2. These data indicate
that ABA-induced H2O2 production and the H2O2-activated Ca2+ channels are
important mechanisms for ABA-induced stomatal closing.

DOI: 10.1038/35021067 
PMID: 10963598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):726-31.

Cortex-restricted disruption of NMDAR1 impairs neuronal patterns in the barrel
cortex.

Iwasato T(1), Datwani A, Wolf AM, Nishiyama H, Taguchi Y, Tonegawa S, Knöpfel T, 
Erzurumlu RS, Itohara S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Behavioral Genetics, Brain Science Institute, RIKEN, Saitama,
Japan.

In the rodent primary somatosensory cortex, the configuration of whiskers and
sinus hairs on the snout and of receptor-dense zones on the paws is
topographically represented as discrete modules of layer IV granule cells
(barrels) and thalamocortical afferent terminals. The role of neural activity,
particularly activity mediated by NMDARs (N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors), in
patterning of the somatosensory cortex has been a subject of debate. We have
generated mice in which deletion of the NMDAR1 (NR1) gene is restricted to
excitatory cortical neurons, and here we show that sensory periphery-related
patterns develop normally in the brainstem and thalamic somatosensory relay
stations of these mice. In the somatosensory cortex, thalamocortical afferents
corresponding to large whiskers form patterns and display critical period
plasticity, but their patterning is not as distinct as that seen in the cortex of
normal mice. Other thalamocortical patterns corresponding to sinus hairs and
digits are mostly absent. The cellular aggregates known as barrels and barrel
boundaries do not develop even at sites where thalamocortical afferents cluster. 
Our findings indicate that cortical NMDARs are essential for the aggregation of
layer IV cells into barrels and for development of the full complement of
thalamocortical patterns.

DOI: 10.1038/35021059 
PMCID: PMC3558691
PMID: 10963597  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):722-6.

Fear memories require protein synthesis in the amygdala for reconsolidation after
retrieval.

Nader K(1), Schafe GE, Le Doux JE.

Author information: 
(1)W.M. Keck Foundation Laboratory of Neurobiology, Center for Neural Science,
New York University, New York 10003, USA. karim@cns.nyu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):686-7.

'New' memories are initially labile and sensitive to disruption before being
consolidated into stable long-term memories. Much evidence indicates that this
consolidation involves the synthesis of new proteins in neurons. The lateral and 
basal nuclei of the amygdala (LBA) are believed to be a site of memory storage in
fear learning. Infusion of the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin into the
LBA shortly after training prevents consolidation of fear memories. Here we show 
that consolidated fear memories, when reactivated during retrieval, return to a
labile state in which infusion of anisomycin shortly after memory reactivation
produces amnesia on later tests, regardless of whether reactivation was performed
1 or 14 days after conditioning. The same treatment with anisomycin, in the
absence of memory reactivation, left memory intact. Consistent with a
time-limited role for protein synthesis production in consolidation, delay of the
infusion until six hours after memory reactivation produced no amnesia. Our data 
show that consolidated fear memories, when reactivated, return to a labile state 
that requires de novo protein synthesis for reconsolidation. These findings are
not predicted by traditional theories of memory consolidation.

DOI: 10.1038/35021052 
PMID: 10963596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):718-22.

Genetic diversity and disease control in rice.

Zhu Y(1), Chen H, Fan J, Wang Y, Li Y, Chen J, Fan J, Yang S, Hu L, Leung H, Mew 
TW, Teng PS, Wang Z, Mundt CC.

Author information: 
(1)The Phytopathology Laboratory of Yunnan Province, Yunnan Agricultural
University, Kunming, China.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):681-2.

Crop heterogeneity is a possible solution to the vulnerability of monocultured
crops to disease. Both theory and observation indicate that genetic heterogeneity
provides greater disease suppression when used over large areas, though
experimental data are lacking. Here we report a unique cooperation among farmers,
researchers and extension personnel in Yunnan Province, China--genetically
diversified rice crops were planted in all the rice fields in five townships in
1998 and ten townships in 1999. Control plots of monocultured crops allowed us to
calculate the effect of diversity on the severity of rice blast, the major
disease of rice. Disease-susceptible rice varieties planted in mixtures with
resistant varieties had 89% greater yield and blast was 94% less severe than when
they were grown in monoculture. The experiment was so successful that fungicidal 
sprays were no longer applied by the end of the two-year programme. Our results
support the view that intraspecific crop diversification provides an ecological
approach to disease control that can be highly effective over a large area and
contribute to the sustainability of crop production.

DOI: 10.1038/35021046 
PMID: 10963595  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):716-8.

Cursoriality in bipedal archosaurs.

Jones TD(1), Farlow JO, Ruben JA, Henderson DM, Hillenius WJ.

Author information: 
(1)Zoology Department, Oregon State University, Corvallis 97331, USA.
tdjones@sfasu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2001 Apr 26;410(6832):1036-7.

Modern birds have markedly foreshortened tails and their body mass is centred
anteriorly, near the wings. To provide stability during powered flight, the avian
centre of mass is far from the pelvis, which poses potential balance problems for
cursorial birds. To compensate, avians adapted to running maintain the femur
subhorizontally, with its distal end situated anteriorly, close to the animal's
centre of mass; stride generation stems largely from parasagittal rotation of the
lower leg about the knee joint. In contrast, bipedal dinosaurs had a centre of
mass near the hip joint and rotated the entire hindlimb during stride generation.
Here we show that these contrasting styles of cursoriality are tightly linked to 
longer relative total hindlimb length in cursorial birds than in bipedal
dinosaurs. Surprisingly, Caudipteryx, described as a theropod dinosaur, possessed
an anterior centre of mass and hindlimb proportions resembling those of cursorial
birds. Accordingly, Caudipteryx probably used a running mechanism more similar to
that of modern cursorial birds than to that of all other bipedal dinosaurs. These
observations provide valuable clues about cursoriality in Caudipteryx, but may
also have implications for interpreting the locomotory status of its ancestors.

DOI: 10.1038/35021041 
PMID: 10963594  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):713-6.

Timing of the Last Glacial Maximum from observed sea-level minima

Yokoyama Y(1), Lambeck K, De Deckker P, Johnston P, Fifield LK.

Author information: 
(1)Research School of Earth Sciences, The Australian National University,
Canberra, ACT.

During the Last Glacial Maximum, ice sheets covered large areas in northern
latitudes and global temperatures were significantly lower than today. But few
direct estimates exist of the volume of the ice sheets, or the timing and rates
of change during their advance and retreat. Here we analyse four distinct
sediment facies in the shallow, tectonically stable Bonaparte Gulf,
Australia--each of which is characteristic of a distinct range in sea level--to
estimate the maximum volume of land-based ice during the last glaciation and the 
timing of the initial melting phase. We use faunal assemblages and preservation
status of the sediments to distinguish open marine, shallow marine, marginal
marine and brackish conditions, and estimate the timing and the mass of the ice
sheets using radiocarbon dating and glacio-hydro-isostatic modelling. Our results
indicate that from at least 22,000 to 19,000 (calendar) years before present,
land-based ice volume was at its maximum, exceeding today's grounded ice sheets
by 52.5 x 10(6) km. A rapid decrease in ice volume by about 10% within a few
hundred years terminated the Last Glacial Maximum at 19,000 +/- 250 years.

DOI: 10.1038/35021035 
PMID: 10963593 


377. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):710-3.

A colorimetric sensor array for odour visualization.

Rakow NA(1), Suslick KS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana
61801, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):682-3.

Array-based vapour-sensing devices are used to detect and differentiate between
chemically diverse analytes. These systems--based on cross-responsive sensor
elements--aim to mimic the mammalian olfactory system by producing composite
responses unique to each odorant. Previous work has concentrated on a variety of 
non-specific chemical interactions to detect non-coordinating organic vapours.
But the most odiferous, toxic compounds often bind readily to metal ions. Here we
report a simple optical chemical sensing method that utilizes the colour change
induced in an array of metalloporphyrin dyes upon ligand binding while minimizing
the need for extensive signal transduction hardware. The chemoselective response 
of a library of immobilized vapour-sensing metalloporphyrin dyes permits the
visual identification of a wide range of ligating (alcohols, amines, ethers,
phosphines, phosphites, thioethers and thiols) and even weakly ligating (arenes, 
halocarbons and ketones) vapours. Water vapour does not affect the performance of
the device, which shows a good linear response to single analytes, and
interpretable responses to analyte mixtures. Unique colour fingerprints can be
obtained at analyte concentrations below 2 parts per million, and responses to
below 100 parts per billion have been observed. We expect that this type of
sensing array will be of practical importance for general-purpose vapour
dosimeters and analyte-specific detectors (for insecticides, drugs or
neurotoxins, for example).

DOI: 10.1038/35021028 
PMID: 10963592  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):708-10.

Stress transmission through a model system of cohesionless elastic grains

Da Silva M(1), Rajchenbach J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire des Milieux Desordonnes et Heterogenes (UMR 7603 CNRS), Case 86,
Universite P. et M. Curie, Paris, France.

Understanding the mechanical properties of granular materials is important for
applications in civil and chemical engineering, geophysical sciences and the food
industry, as well as for the control or prevention of avalanches and landslides. 
Unlike continuous media, granular materials lack cohesion, and cannot resist
tensile stresses. Current descriptions of the mechanical properties of
collections of cohesionless grains have relied either on elasto-plastic models
classically used in civil engineering, or on a recent model involving hyperbolic 
equations. The former models suggest that collections of elastic grains submitted
to a compressive load will behave elastically. Here we present the results of an 
experiment on a two-dimensional model system--made of discrete square cells
submitted to a point load--in which the region in which the stress is confined is
photoelastically visualized as a parabola. These results, which can be
interpreted within a statistical framework, demonstrate that the collective
response of the pile contradicts the standard elastic predictions and supports a 
diffusive description of stress transmission. We expect that these findings will 
be applicable to problems in soil mechanics, such as the behaviour of
cohesionless soils or sand piles.

DOI: 10.1038/35021023 
PMID: 10963591 


379. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):704-8.

Room-temperature electronic phase transitions in the continuous phase diagrams of
perovskite manganites

Yoo YK(1), Duewer F, Yang H, Yi D, Li JW, Xiang XD.

Author information: 
(1)Environmental Energy Technologies Division, Lawrence Berkeley National
Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Highly correlated electronic systems--such as transition-metal oxides that are
doped Mott insulators--are complex systems which exhibit puzzling phenomena,
including high-temperature superconductivity and colossal magnetoresistivity.
Recent studies suggest that in such systems collective electronic phenomena are
important, arising from long-range Coulomb interactions and magnetic effects. The
qualitative behaviour of these systems is strongly dependent on charge filling
(the level of doping) and the lattice constant. Here we report a time-efficient
and systematic experimental approach for studying the phase diagrams of
condensed-matter systems. It involves the continuous mapping of the physical
properties of epitaxial thin films of perovskite manganites (a class of doped
Mott insulator) as their composition is varied. We discover evidence that
suggests the presence of phase boundaries of electronic origin at room
temperature.

DOI: 10.1038/35021018 
PMID: 10963590 


380. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):702-4.

Superconductivity in molecular crystals induced by charge injection.

Schön JH(1), Kloc C, Batlogg B.

Author information: 
(1)Bell Laboratories, Lucent Technologies, Murray Hill, New Jersey 07974-0636,
USA.

Retraction in
    Schön JH, Kloc Ch, Batlogg B. Nature. 2003 Mar 6;422(6927):93.

Progress in the field of superconductivity is often linked to the discovery of
new classes of materials, with the layered copper oxides being a particularly
impressive example. The superconductors known today include a wide spectrum of
materials, ranging in complexity from simple elemental metals, to alloys and
binary compounds of metals, to multi-component compounds of metals and chalcogens
or metalloids, doped fullerenes and organic charge-transfer salts. Here we
present a new class of superconductors: insulating organic molecular crystals
that are made metallic through charge injection. The first examples are
pentacene, tetracene and anthracene, the last having the highest transition
temperature, at 4 K. We anticipate that many other organic molecular crystals can
also be made superconducting by this method, which will lead to surprising
findings in the vast composition space of molecular crystals.

DOI: 10.1038/35021011 
PMID: 10963589 


381. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):700-2.

Deep and stable interferometric nulling of broadband light with implications for 
observing planets around nearby stars

Wallace K(1), Hardy G, Serabyn E.

Author information: 
(1)Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena 91109,
USA. James.K.Wallace@jpl.nasa.gov

The number of indirectly detected planetary systems around nearby stars has grown
tremendously since their initial discovery five years ago. But the direct
observation of light reflected from these systems remains a formidable task,
because of the high contrast ratios between them and their parent stars, and
because of the tiny angular separations. Theoretically, these difficulties can be
overcome by using a dual-aperture stellar interferometer in which the starlight
is cancelled, or 'nulled' by broadband destructive interference, leaving the
planet's light visible. Although the basic requirement of equal and oppositely
directed electric fields is easy to state, an experimental demonstration of deep 
broadband nulling has been lacking, owing to difficulties engendered by the needs
for extreme symmetry and stability, and low dispersion in the optical system.
Here we report the deep (10(-4)) and stable nulling of broadband (18% bandwidth) 
thermal light. These results validate the physical principles underlying future
planet-searching interferometers, and our laboratory instrument will serve as a
prototype for the nulling instrument to be implemented on the Keck interferometer
in 2001.

DOI: 10.1038/35021007 
PMID: 10963588 


382. Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):695-9.

Atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations over the past 60 million years.

Pearson PN(1), Palmer MR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol, UK.
Paul.Pearson@Bristol.ac.uk

Knowledge of the evolution of atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations
throughout the Earth's history is important for a reconstruction of the links
between climate and radiative forcing of the Earth's surface temperatures.
Although atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations in the early Cenozoic era
(about 60 Myr ago) are widely believed to have been higher than at present, there
is disagreement regarding the exact carbon dioxide levels, the timing of the
decline and the mechanisms that are most important for the control of CO2
concentrations over geological timescales. Here we use the boron-isotope ratios
of ancient planktonic foraminifer shells to estimate the pH of surface-layer sea 
water throughout the past 60 million years, which can be used to reconstruct
atmospheric CO2 concentrations. We estimate CO2 concentrations of more than 2,000
p.p.m. for the late Palaeocene and earliest Eocene periods (from about 60 to 52
Myr ago), and find an erratic decline between 55 and 40 Myr ago that may have
been caused by reduced CO2 outgassing from ocean ridges, volcanoes and
metamorphic belts and increased carbon burial. Since the early Miocene (about 24 
Myr ago), atmospheric CO2 concentrations appear to have remained below 500 p.p.m.
and were more stable than before, although transient intervals of CO2 reduction
may have occurred during periods of rapid cooling approximately 15 and 3 Myr ago.

DOI: 10.1038/35021000 
PMID: 10963587  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):653-7.

Molecular mechanism of vectorial proton translocation by bacteriorhodopsin.

Subramaniam S(1), Henderson R.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, UK. ss1@nih.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):569-70.

Bacteriorhodopsin, a membrane protein with a relative molecular mass of 27,000,
is a light driven pump which transports protons across the cell membrane of the
halophilic organism Halobacterium salinarum. The chromophore retinal is
covalently attached to the protein via a protonated Schiff base. Upon
illumination, retinal is isomerized. The Schiff base then releases a proton to
the extracellular medium, and is subsequently reprotonated from the cytoplasm. An
atomic model for bacteriorhodopsin was first determined by Henderson et al, and
has been confirmed and extended by work in a number of laboratories in the last
few years. Here we present an atomic model for structural changes involved in the
vectorial, light-driven transport of protons by bacteriorhodopsin. A 'switch'
mechanism ensures the vectorial nature of pumping. First, retinal unbends,
triggered by loss of the Schiff base proton, and second, a protein conformational
change occurs. This conformational change, which we have determined by electron
crystallography at atomic (3.2 A in-plane and 3.6 A vertical) resolution, is
largely localized to helices F and G, and provides an 'opening' of the protein to
protons on the cytoplasmic side of the membrane.

DOI: 10.1038/35020614 
PMID: 10949309  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):649-53.

Structural alterations for proton translocation in the M state of wild-type
bacteriorhodopsin.

Sass HJ(1), Büldt G, Gessenich R, Hehn D, Neff D, Schlesinger R, Berendzen J,
Ormos P.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Structural Biology, Research Centre Jülich, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):569-70.

The transport of protons across membranes is an important process in cellular
bioenergetics. The light-driven proton pump bacteriorhodopsin is the
best-characterized protein providing this function. Photon energy is absorbed by 
the chromophore retinal, covalently bound to Lys 216 via a protonated Schiff
base. The light-induced all-trans to 13-cis isomerization of the retinal results 
in deprotonation of the Schiff base followed by alterations in protonatable
groups within bacteriorhodopsin. The changed force field induces changes, even in
the tertiary structure, which are necessary for proton pumping. The recent report
of a high-resolution X-ray crystal structure for the late M intermediate of a
mutant bacteriorhopsin (with Asp 96-->Asn) displays the structure of a proton
pathway highly disturbed by the mutation. To observe an unperturbed proton
pathway, we determined the structure of the late M intermediate of wild-type
bacteriorhodopsin (2.25 A resolution). The cytoplasmic side of our M2 structure
shows a water net that allows proton transfer from the proton donor group Asp 96 
towards the Schiff base. An enlarged cavity system above Asp 96 is observed,
which facilitates the de- and reprotonation of this group by fluctuating water
molecules in the last part of the cycle.

DOI: 10.1038/35020607 
PMID: 10949308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):645-8.

Helix deformation is coupled to vectorial proton transport in the photocycle of
bacteriorhodopsin.

Royant A(1), Edman K, Ursby T, Pebay-Peyroula E, Landau EM, Neutze R.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Biologie Structurale, CEA-CNRS-Université Joseph Fourier, UMR
5075, Grenoble, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):569-70.

A wide variety of mechanisms are used to generate a proton-motive potential
across cell membranes, a function lying at the heart of bioenergetics.
Bacteriorhodopsin, the simplest known proton pump, provides a paradigm for
understanding this process. Here we report, at 2.1 A resolution, the structural
changes in bacteriorhodopsin immediately preceding the primary proton transfer
event in its photocycle. The early structural rearrangements propagate from the
protein's core towards the extracellular surface, disrupting the network of
hydrogen-bonded water molecules that stabilizes helix C in the ground state.
Concomitantly, a bend of this helix enables the negatively charged primary proton
acceptor, Asp 85, to approach closer to the positively charged primary proton
donor, the Schiff base. The primary proton transfer event would then neutralize
these two groups, cancelling their electrostatic attraction and facilitating a
relaxation of helix C to a less strained geometry. Reprotonation of the Schiff
base by Asp 85 would thereby be impeded, ensuring vectorial proton transport.
Structural rearrangements also occur near the protein's surface, aiding proton
release to the extracellular medium.

DOI: 10.1038/35020599 
PMID: 10949307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):641-5.

Telomere dysfunction promotes non-reciprocal translocations and epithelial
cancers in mice.

Artandi SE(1), Chang S, Lee SL, Alson S, Gottlieb GJ, Chin L, DePinho RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Adult Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):573-4.

Aged humans sustain a high rate of epithelial cancers such as carcinomas of the
breast and colon, whereas mice carrying common tumour suppressor gene mutations
typically develop soft tissue sarcomas and lymphomas. Among the many factors that
may contribute to this species variance are differences in telomere length and
regulation. Telomeres comprise the nucleoprotein complexes that cap the ends of
eukaryotic chromosomes and are maintained by the reverse transcriptase,
telomerase. In human cells, insufficient levels of telomerase lead to telomere
attrition with cell division in culture and possibly with ageing and
tumorigenesis in vivo. In contrast, critical reduction in telomere length is not 
observed in the mouse owing to promiscuous telomerase expression and long
telomeres. Here we provide evidence that telomere attrition in ageing
telomerase-deficient p53 mutant mice promotes the development of epithelial
cancers by a process of fusion-bridge breakage that leads to the formation of
complex non-reciprocal translocations--a classical cytogenetic feature of human
carcinomas. Our data suggest a model in which telomere dysfunction brought about 
by continual epithelial renewal during life generates the massive ploidy changes 
associated with the development of epithelial cancers.

DOI: 10.1038/35020592 
PMID: 10949306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):637-41.

YidC mediates membrane protein insertion in bacteria.

Samuelson JC(1), Chen M, Jiang F, Möller I, Wiedmann M, Kuhn A, Phillips GJ,
Dalbey RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, The Ohio State University, Columbus 43210, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):575, 577.

The basic machinery for the translocation of proteins into or across membranes is
remarkably conserved from Escherichia coli to humans. In eukaryotes, proteins are
inserted into the endoplasmic reticulum using the signal recognition particle
(SRP) and the SRP receptor, as well as the integral membrane Sec61 trimeric
complex (composed of alpha, beta and gamma subunits). In bacteria, most proteins 
are inserted by a related pathway that includes the SRP homologue Ffh, the SRP
receptor FtsY, and the SecYEG trimeric complex, where Y and E are related to the 
Sec61 alpha and gamma subunits, respectively. Proteins in bacteria that exhibit
no dependence on the Sec translocase were previously thought to insert into the
membrane directly without the aid of a protein machinery. Here we show that
membrane insertion of two Sec-independent proteins requires YidC. YidC is
essential for E. coli viability and homologues are present in mitochondria and
chloroplasts. Depletion of YidC also interferes with insertion of Sec-dependent
membrane proteins, but it has only a minor effect on the export of secretory
proteins. These results provide evidence for an additional component of the
translocation machinery that is specialized for the integration of membrane
proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/35020586 
PMID: 10949305  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):633-6.

NO is necessary and sufficient for egg activation at fertilization.

Kuo RC(1), Baxter GT, Thompson SH, Stricker SA, Patton C, Bonaventura J, Epel D.

Author information: 
(1)Neurosciences Program, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford
University, California 94305, USA.

The early steps that lead to the rise in calcium and egg activation at
fertilization are unknown but of great interest--particularly with the advent of 
in vitro fertilization techniques for treating male infertility and whole-animal 
cloning by nuclear transfer. This calcium rise is required for egg activation and
the subsequent events of development in eggs of all species. Injection of intact 
sperm or sperm extracts can activate eggs, suggesting that sperm-derived factors 
may be involved. Here we show that nitric oxide synthase is present at high
concentration and active in sperm after activation by the acrosome reaction. An
increase in nitrosation within eggs is evident seconds after insemination and
precedes the calcium pulse of fertilization. Microinjection of nitric oxide
donors or recombinant nitric oxide synthase recapitulates events of egg
activation, whereas prior injection of oxyhaemoglobin, a physiological nitric
oxide scavenger, prevents egg activation after fertilization. We conclude that
nitric oxide synthase and nitric-oxide-related bioactivity satisfy the primary
criteria of an egg activator: they are present in an appropriate place, active at
an appropriate time, and are necessary and sufficient for successful
fertilization.

DOI: 10.1038/35020577 
PMID: 10949304  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):628-32.

Behaviourally driven gene expression reveals song nuclei in hummingbird brain.

Jarvis ED(1), Ribeiro S, da Silva ML, Ventura D, Vielliard J, Mello CV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North
Carolina 27710, USA. jarvis@neuro.duke.edu

Hummingbirds have developed a wealth of intriguing features, such as backwards
flight, ultraviolet vision, extremely high metabolic rates, nocturnal
hibernation, high brain-to-body size ratio and a remarkable species-specific
diversity of vocalizations. Like humans, they have also developed the rare trait 
of vocal learning, this being the ability to acquire vocalizations through
imitation rather than instinct. Here we show, using behaviourally driven gene
expression in freely ranging tropical animals, that the forebrain of hummingbirds
contains seven discrete structures that are active during singing, providing the 
first anatomical and functional demonstration of vocal nuclei in hummingbirds.
These structures are strikingly similar to seven forebrain regions that are
involved in vocal learning and production in songbirds and parrots--the only
other avian orders known to be vocal learners. This similarity is surprising, as 
songbirds, parrots and hummingbirds are thought to have evolved vocal learning
and associated brain structures independently, and it indicates that strong
constraints may influence the evolution of forebrain vocal nuclei.

DOI: 10.1038/35020570 
PMCID: PMC2531203
PMID: 10949303  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):625-8.

Evolvability of an RNA virus is determined by its mutational neighbourhood.

Burch CL(1), Chao L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla
92093-0116, USA. cburch@biomail.ucsd.edu

The ubiquity of mechanisms that generate genetic variation has spurred arguments 
that evolvability, the ability to generate adaptive variation, has itself evolved
in response to natural selection. The high mutation rate of RNA viruses is
postulated to be an adaptation for evolvability, but the paradox is that whereas 
some RNA viruses evolve at high rates, others are highly stable. Here we show
that evolvability in the RNA bacteriophage phi6 is also determined by the
accessibility of advantageous genotypes within the mutational neighbourhood (the 
set of mutants one or a few mutational steps away). We found that two phi6
populations that were derived from a single ancestral phage repeatedly evolved at
different rates and toward different fitness maxima. Fitness measurements of
individual phages showed that the fitness distribution of mutants differed
between the two populations. Whereas population A, which evolved toward a higher 
maximum, had a distribution that contained many advantageous mutants, population 
B, which evolved toward a lower maximum, had a distribution that contained only
deleterious mutants. We interpret these distributions to measure the fitness
effects of genotypes that are mutationally available to the two populations.
Thus, the evolvability of phi6 is constrained by the distribution of its
mutational neighbours, despite the fact that this phage has the characteristic
high mutation rate of RNA viruses.

DOI: 10.1038/35020564 
PMID: 10949302  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):622-5.

Unexpectedly similar rates of nucleotide substitution found in male and female
hominids.

Bohossian HB(1), Skaletsky H, Page DC.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, and Department of Biology, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge 02142, USA.

In 1947, it was suggested that, in humans, the mutation rate is dramatically
higher in the male germ line than in the female germ line. This hypothesis has
been supported by the observation that, among primates, Y-linked genes evolved
more rapidly than homologous X-linked genes. Based on these evolutionary studies,
the ratio (alpha(m)) of male to female mutation rates in primates was estimated
to be about 5. However, selection could have skewed sequence evolution in introns
and exons. In addition, some of the X-Y gene pairs studied lie within chromosomal
regions with substantially divergent nucleotide sequences. Here we directly
compare human X and Y sequences within a large region with no known genes. Here
the two chromosomes are 99% identical, and X-Y divergence began only three or
four million years ago, during hominid evolution. In apes, homologous sequences
exist only on the X chromosome. We sequenced and compared 38.6 kb of this region 
from human X, human Y, chimpanzee X and gorilla X chromosomes. We calculated
alpha(m) to be 1.7 (95% confidence interval 1.15-2.87), significantly lower than 
previous estimates in primates. We infer that, in humans and their immediate
ancestors, male and female mutation rates were far more similar than previously
supposed.

DOI: 10.1038/35020557 
PMID: 10949301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):619-22.

Fine structure of bone in dinosaurs, birds and mammals.

Rensberger JM(1), Watabe M.

Author information: 
(1)Burke Museum of Natural History and Culture & Department of Geological
Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle 98195, USA. rensb@u.washington.edu

After observation of detailed structural evidence for the origin of birds from
dinosaurs, and in light of evidence that dinosaur bone tissue resembles the
histology in mammals, the histology of bone has become one of the focal points in
discussions of the physiology of dinosaurs and Mesozoic birds. Most of this
microstructural information has focused on features related to the vascular
organization and the amount of remodelled bone around vascular canals. However,
the finer structures have received less attention, although differences in such
structures have been observed among modern vertebrates. Here we present evidence 
that canaliculi--the submicrometre-sized channels that interconnect bone cells
and vascular canals--and the collagen fibre bundles in bone are differently
organized among certain dinosaur lineages. Ornithomimid dinosaurs are more like
birds than mammals in these features. In canalicular structure, and to some
extent in fibre bundle arrangement, ornithischian dinosaurs are more like
mammals. These differences in both canalicular and lamellar structure are
probably linked to differences in the process and rate of bone formation.

DOI: 10.1038/35020550 
PMID: 10949300  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):614-8.

Evidence from three-dimensional seismic reflectivity images for enhanced melt
supply beneath mid-ocean-ridge discontinuities

Kent GM(1), Singh SC, Harding AJ, Sinha MC, Orcutt JA, Barton PJ, White RS, Bazin
S, Hobbs RW, Tong CH, Pye JW.

Author information: 
(1)Cecil H. and Ida M. Green Institute of Geophysics and Planetary Physics,
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla 92093, USA. gkent@ucsd.edu

Quantifying the melt distribution and crustal structure across ridge-axis
discontinuities is essential for understanding the relationship between magmatic,
tectonic and petrologic segmentation of mid-ocean-ridge spreading centres. The
geometry and continuity of magma bodies beneath features such as overlapping
spreading centres can strongly influence the composition of erupted lavas and may
give insight into the underlying pattern of mantle flow. Here we present
three-dimensional images of seismic reflectivity beneath a mid-ocean ridge to
investigate the nature of melt distribution across a ridge-axis discontinuity.
Reflectivity slices through the 9 degrees 03' N overlapping spreading centre on
East Pacific Rise suggest that it has a robust magma supply, with melt bodies
underlying both limbs and ponding of melt beneath large areas of the overlap
basin. The geometry of melt distribution beneath this offset is inconsistent with
large-scale, crustal redistribution of melt away from centres of upwelling. The
complex distribution of melt seems instead to be caused by a combination of
vertical melt transport from the underlying mantle and subsequent focusing of
melt beneath a magma freezing boundary in the mid-crust.

DOI: 10.1038/35020543 
PMID: 10949299 


394. Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):611-4.

Water activity as the determinant for homogeneous ice nucleation in aqueous
solutions

Koop T(1), Luo B, Tsias A, Peter T.

Author information: 
(1)Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Institute for Atmospheric Science, ETH 
Honggerberg HPP, Zurich. koop@atmos.umnw.ethz.ch

The unique properties of water in the supercooled (metastable) state are not
fully understood. In particular, the effects of solutes and mechanical pressure
on the kinetics of the liquid-to-solid phase transition of supercooled water and 
aqueous solutions to ice have remained unresolved. Here we show from experimental
data that the homogeneous nucleation of ice from supercooled aqueous solutions is
independent of the nature of the solute, but depends only on the water activity
of the solution--that is, the ratio between the water vapour pressures of the
solution and of pure water under the same conditions. In addition, we show that
the presence of solutes and the application of pressure have a very similar
effect on ice nucleation. We present a thermodynamic theory for homogeneous ice
nucleation, which expresses the nucleation rate coefficient as a function of
water activity and pressure. Recent observations from clouds containing ice are
in good agreement with our theory and our results should help to overcome one of 
the main weaknesses of numerical models of the atmosphere, the formulation of
cloud processes.

DOI: 10.1038/35020537 
PMID: 10949298 


395. Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):608-11.

Influencing intramolecular motion with an alternating electric field

Bermudez V V(1), Capron N, Gase T, Gatti FG, Kajzar F, Leigh DA, Zerbetto F,
Zhang S.

Author information: 
(1)LETI (CEA-Technologies Avancees), DEIN/SPE/GCO, CE Saclay, Gif-sur-Yvette,
France.

Analogues of mechanical devices that operate on the molecular level, such as
shuttles, brakes, ratchets, turnstiles and unidirectional spinning motors, are
current targets of both synthetic chemistry and nanotechnology. These structures 
are designed to restrict the degrees of freedom of submolecular components such
that they can only move with respect to each other in a predetermined manner,
ideally under the influence of some external stimuli. Alternating-current (a.c.) 
electric fields are commonly used to probe electronic structure, but can also
change the orientation of molecules (a phenomenon exploited in liquid crystal
displays), or interact with large-scale molecular motions, such as the backbone
fluctuations of semi-rigid polymers. Here we show that modest a.c. fields can be 
used to monitor and influence the relative motion within certain rotaxanes,
molecules comprising a ring that rotates around a linear 'thread' carrying bulky 
'stoppers' at each end. We observe strong birefringence at frequencies that
correspond to the rate at which the molecular ring pirouettes about the thread,
with the frequency of maximum birefringence, and by inference also the rate of
ring pirouetting giving rise to it, changing as the electric field strength is
varied. Computer simulations and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy show the
ring rotation to be the only dynamic process occurring on a timescale
corresponding to the frequency of maximum birefringence, thus confirming that
mechanical motion within the rotaxanes can be addressed, and to some extent
controlled, by oscillating electric fields.

DOI: 10.1038/35020531 
PMID: 10949297 


396. Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):605-8.

A DNA-fuelled molecular machine made of DNA.

Yurke B(1), Turberfield AJ, Mills AP Jr, Simmel FC, Neumann JL.

Author information: 
(1)Bell Laboratories, Lucent Technologies, Murray Hill, New Jersey 07974, USA.
yurke@lucent.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2003 Jan 23;421(6921):427-31.

Molecular recognition between complementary strands of DNA allows construction on
a nanometre length scale. For example, DNA tags may be used to organize the
assembly of colloidal particles, and DNA templates can direct the growth of
semiconductor nanocrystals and metal wires. As a structural material in its own
right, DNA can be used to make ordered static arrays of tiles, linked rings and
polyhedra. The construction of active devices is also possible--for example, a
nanomechanical switch, whose conformation is changed by inducing a transition in 
the chirality of the DNA double helix. Melting of chemically modified DNA has
been induced by optical absorption, and conformational changes caused by the
binding of oligonucleotides or other small groups have been shown to change the
enzymatic activity of ribozymes. Here we report the construction of a DNA machine
in which the DNA is used not only as a structural material, but also as 'fuel'.
The machine, made from three strands of DNA, has the form of a pair of tweezers. 
It may be closed and opened by addition of auxiliary strands of 'fuel' DNA; each 
cycle produces a duplex DNA waste product.

DOI: 10.1038/35020524 
PMID: 10949296  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):602-5.

Quasicrystalline valence bands in decagonal AlNiCo

Rotenberg E(1), Theis W, Horn K, Gille P.

Author information: 
(1)Advanced Light Source, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA. erotenberg@lbl.gov

Quasicrystals are metallic alloys that possess perfect long-range structural
order, in spite of the fact that their rotational symmetries are incompatible
with long-range periodicity. The exotic structural properties of this class of
materials are accompanied by physical properties that are unexpected for metallic
alloys. Considerable progress in resolving the geometric structures of
quasicrystals has been made using X-ray and neutron diffraction, and concepts
such as the quasi-unit-cell model have provided theoretical insights. But the
basic properties of the valence electronic states--whether they are extended as
in periodic crystals or localized as in amorphous materials--are still largely
unresolved. Here we investigate the electronic bandstructure of quasicrystals
through angle-resolved photoemission experiments on decagonal Al71.8Ni14.8Co13.4.
We find that the s-p and d states exhibit band-like behaviour with the symmetry
of the quasiperiodic lattice, and that the Fermi level is crossed by dispersing
d-bands. The observation of free-electron-like bands, distributed in momentum
space according to the surface diffraction pattern, suggests that the electronic 
states are not dominated by localization.

DOI: 10.1038/35020519 
PMID: 10949295 


398. Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):600-2.

Evaporation in the young solar nebula as the origin of 'just-right' melting of
chondrules

Cohen BA(1), Hewins RH, Yu Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geological Sciences, Rutgers University, Piscataway, New Jersey 
08855, USA. bosmat@eden.rutgers.edu

Chondrules are millimetre-sized, solidified melt spherules formed in the solar
nebula by an early widespread heating event of uncertain nature. They were
accreted into chondritic asteroids, which formed about 4.56 billion years ago and
have not experienced melting or differentiation since that time. Chondrules have 
diverse chemical compositions, corresponding to liquidus temperatures in the
range 1,350-1,800 degrees C. Most chondrules, however, show porphyritic textures 
(consisting of large crystals in a distinctly finer grained or glassy matrix),
indicative of melting within the narrow range 0-50 degrees C below the liquidus. 
This suggests an unusual heating mechanism for chondrule precursors, which would 
raise each individual chondrule to just the right temperature (particular to
individual bulk composition) in order to form porphyritic textures. Here we
report the results of isothermal melting of a chondritic composition at nebular
pressures. Our results suggest that evaporation stabilizes porphyritic textures
over a wider range of temperatures below the liquidus (about 200 degrees C) than 
previously believed, thus removing the need for individual chondrule temperature 
buffering. In addition, we show that evaporation explains many chondrule bulk and
mineral compositions that have hitherto been difficult to understand.

DOI: 10.1038/35020514 
PMID: 10949294 


399. Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):593-9.

Regulation of chromatin structure by site-specific histone H3 methyltransferases.

Rea S(1), Eisenhaber F, O'Carroll D, Strahl BD, Sun ZW, Schmid M, Opravil S,
Mechtler K, Ponting CP, Allis CD, Jenuwein T.

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute of Molecular Pathology, The Vienna Biocenter, Austria.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):579-80.

The organization of chromatin into higher-order structures influences chromosome 
function and epigenetic gene regulation. Higher-order chromatin has been proposed
to be nucleated by the covalent modification of histone tails and the subsequent 
establishment of chromosomal subdomains by non-histone modifier factors. Here we 
show that human SUV39H1 and murine Suv39h1--mammalian homologues of Drosophila
Su(var)3-9 and of Schizosaccharomyces pombe clr4--encode histone H3-specific
methyltransferases that selectively methylate lysine 9 of the amino terminus of
histone H3 in vitro. We mapped the catalytic motif to the evolutionarily
conserved SET domain, which requires adjacent cysteine-rich regions to confer
histone methyltransferase activity. Methylation of lysine 9 interferes with
phosphorylation of serine 10, but is also influenced by pre-existing
modifications in the amino terminus of H3. In vivo, deregulated SUV39H1 or
disrupted Suv39h activity modulate H3 serine 10 phosphorylation in native
chromatin and induce aberrant mitotic divisions. Our data reveal a functional
interdependence of site-specific H3 tail modifications and suggest a dynamic
mechanism for the regulation of higher-order chromatin.

DOI: 10.1038/35020506 
PMID: 10949293  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Nature. 2000 Aug 10;406(6796):587-92.

Superconductivity on the border of itinerant-electron ferromagnetism in UGe2

Saxena SS(1), Agarwal P, Ahilan K, Grosche FM, Haselwimmer RK, Steiner MJ, Pugh
E, Walker IR, Julian SR, Monthoux P, Lonzarich GG, Huxley A, Sheikin I I,
Braithwaite D, Flouquet J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Cambridge, UK.

The absence of simple examples of superconductivity adjoining itinerant-electron 
ferromagnetism in the phase diagram has for many years cast doubt on the validity
of conventional models of magnetically mediated superconductivity. On closer
examination, however, very few systems have been studied in the extreme
conditions of purity, proximity to the ferromagnetic state and very low
temperatures required to test the theory definitively. Here we report the
observation of superconductivity on the border of ferromagnetism in a pure
system, UGe2, which is known to be qualitatively similar to the classic
d-electron ferromagnets. The superconductivity that we observe below 1 K, in a
limited pressure range on the border of ferromagnetism, seems to arise from the
same electrons that produce band magnetism. In this case, superconductivity is
most naturally understood in terms of magnetic as opposed to lattice
interactions, and by a spin-triplet rather than the spin-singlet pairing normally
associated with nearly antiferromagnetic metals.

DOI: 10.1038/35020500 
PMID: 10949292 


401. Nature. 2000 Aug 3;406(6795):541-4.

A chromatin remodelling complex involved in transcription and DNA processing.

Shen X(1), Mizuguchi G, Hamiche A, Wu C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Cell Biology, National Cancer Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-4255, USA.

The packaging of the eukaryotic genome in chromatin presents barriers that
restrict the access of enzymes that process DNA. To overcome these barriers,
cells possess a number of multi-protein, ATP-dependent chromatin remodelling
complexes, each containing an ATPase subunit from the SNF2/SWI2 superfamily.
Chromatin remodelling complexes function by increasing nucleosome mobility and
are clearly implicated in transcription. Here we have analysed SNF2/SWI2- and
ISWI-related proteins to identify remodelling complexes that potentially assist
other DNA transactions. We purified a complex from Saccharomyces cerevisiae that 
contains the Ino80 ATPase. The INO80 complex contains about 12 polypeptides
including two proteins related to the bacterial RuvB DNA helicase, which
catalyses branch migration of Holliday junctions. The purified complex remodels
chromatin, facilitates transcription in vitro and displays 3' to 5' DNA helicase 
activity. Mutants of ino80 show hypersensitivity to agents that cause DNA damage,
in addition to defects in transcription. These results indicate that chromatin
remodelling driven by the Ino80 ATPase may be connected to transcription as well 
as DNA damage repair.

DOI: 10.1038/35020123 
PMID: 10952318  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Nature. 2000 Aug 3;406(6795):536-40.

Molecular classification of cutaneous malignant melanoma by gene expression
profiling.

Bittner M(1), Meltzer P, Chen Y, Jiang Y, Seftor E, Hendrix M, Radmacher M, Simon
R, Yakhini Z, Ben-Dor A, Sampas N, Dougherty E, Wang E, Marincola F, Gooden C,
Lueders J, Glatfelter A, Pollock P, Carpten J, Gillanders E, Leja D, Dietrich K, 
Beaudry C, Berens M, Alberts D, Sondak V.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Genetics Branch, National Human Genome Research Institute, NIH,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA. mbittner@nhgri.nih.gov

The most common human cancers are malignant neoplasms of the skin. Incidence of
cutaneous melanoma is rising especially steeply, with minimal progress in
non-surgical treatment of advanced disease. Despite significant effort to
identify independent predictors of melanoma outcome, no accepted
histopathological, molecular or immunohistochemical marker defines subsets of
this neoplasm. Accordingly, though melanoma is thought to present with different 
'taxonomic' forms, these are considered part of a continuous spectrum rather than
discrete entities. Here we report the discovery of a subset of melanomas
identified by mathematical analysis of gene expression in a series of samples.
Remarkably, many genes underlying the classification of this subset are
differentially regulated in invasive melanomas that form primitive tubular
networks in vitro, a feature of some highly aggressive metastatic melanomas.
Global transcript analysis can identify unrecognized subtypes of cutaneous
melanoma and predict experimentally verifiable phenotypic characteristics that
may be of importance to disease progression.

DOI: 10.1038/35020115 
PMID: 10952317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Nature. 2000 Aug 3;406(6795):532-5.

Genomic analysis of metastasis reveals an essential role for RhoC.

Clark EA(1), Golub TR, Lander ES, Hynes RO.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Centre for Cancer Research, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge 02139, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature 2001 Jun 21;411(6840):974.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 3;406(6795):466-7.

The most damaging change during cancer progression is the switch from a locally
growing tumour to a metastatic killer. This switch is believed to involve
numerous alterations that allow tumour cells to complete the complex series of
events needed for metastasis. Relatively few genes have been implicated in these 
events. Here we use an in vivo selection scheme to select highly metastatic
melanoma cells. By analysing these cells on DNA arrays, we define a pattern of
gene expression that correlates with progression to a metastatic phenotype. In
particular, we show enhanced expression of several genes involved in
extracellular matrix assembly and of a second set of genes that regulate, either 
directly or indirectly, the actin-based cytoskeleton. One of these, the small
GTPase RhoC, enhances metastasis when overexpressed, whereas a dominant-negative 
Rho inhibits metastasis. Analysis of the phenotype of cells expressing
dominant-negative Rho or RhoC indicates that RhoC is important in tumour cell
invasion. The genomic approach allows us to identify families of genes involved
in a process, not just single genes, and can indicate which molecular and
cellular events might be important in complex biological processes such as
metastasis.

DOI: 10.1038/35020106 
PMID: 10952316  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Nature. 2000 Aug 3;406(6795):527-32.

Distinct beta-catenins mediate adhesion and signalling functions in C. elegans.

Korswagen HC(1), Herman MA, Clevers HC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, University Medical Center Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
R.Korswagen@lab.azu.nl

In flies and vertebrates, Armadillo/beta-catenin forms a complex with Tcf/Lef-1
transcription factors, serving as an essential co-activator to mediate Wnt
signalling. It also associates with cadherins to mediate adhesion. In
Caenorhabditis elegans, three putative beta-catenin homologues have been
identified: WRM-1, BAR-1 and HMP-2. WRM-1 and the Tcf homologue POP-1 mediate Wnt
signalling by a mechanism that has challenged current views of the Wnt pathway.
Here we show that BAR-1 is the only beta-catenin homologue that interacts
directly with POP-1. BAR-1 mediates Wnt signalling by forming a BAR-1/POP-1
bipartite transcription factor that activates expression of Wnt target genes such
as the Hox gene mab-5. HMP-2 is the only beta-catenin homologue that interacts
with the single cadherin of C. elegans, HMR-1. We conclude that a canonical Wnt
pathway exists in C. elegans. Furthermore, our analysis shows that the functions 
of C. elegans beta-catenins in adhesion and in signalling are performed by
separate proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/35020099 
PMID: 10952315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Nature. 2000 Aug 3;406(6795):524-7.

Different initiation of pre-TCR and gammadeltaTCR signalling.

Saint-Ruf C(1), Panigada M, Azogui O, Debey P, von Boehmer H, Grassi F.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Necker, U INSERM 373, Faculté de Médecine Necker, Paris, France.

Lineage choice is of great interest in developmental biology. In the immune
system, the alphabeta and gammadelta lineages of T lymphocytes diverge during the
course of the beta-, gamma- and delta-chain rearrangement of T-cell receptor
(TCR) genes that takes place within the same precursor cell and which results in 
the formation of the gammadeltaTCR or pre-TCR proteins. The pre-TCR consists of
the TCRbeta chain covalently linked to the pre-TCRalpha protein, which is present
in immature but not in mature T cells which instead express the TCRalpha chain.
Animals deficient in pre-TCRalpha have few alphabeta lineage cells but an
increased number of gammadelta T cells. These gammadelta T cells exhibit more
extensive TCRbeta rearrangement than gammadelta T cells from wild-type mice.
These observations are consistent with the idea that different signals emanating 
from the gammadeltaTCR and pre-TCR instruct lineage commitment. Here we show, by 
using confocal microscopy and biochemistry to analyse the initiation of
signalling, that the pre-TCR but not the gammadeltaTCR colocalizes with the
p56lck Src kinase into glycolipid-enriched membrane domains (rafts) apparently
without any need for ligation. This results in the phosphorylation of CD3epsilon 
and Zap-70 signal transducing molecules. The results indicate clear differences
between pre-TCR and gammadeltaTCR signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/35020093 
PMID: 10952314  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Nature. 2000 Aug 3;406(6795):519-24.

An intrinsic but cell-nonautonomous defect in GATA-1-overexpressing mouse
erythroid cells.

Whyatt D(1), Lindeboom F, Karis A, Ferreira R, Milot E, Hendriks R, de Bruijn M, 
Langeveld A, Gribnau J, Grosveld F, Philipsen S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Carcinogenesis, The Netherlands Cancer Institute,
Amsterdam.

GATA-1 is a tissue-specific transcription factor that is essential for the
production of red blood cells. Here we show that overexpression of GATA-1 in
erythroid cells inhibits their differentiation, leading to a lethal anaemia.
Using chromosome-X-inactivation of a GATA-1 transgene and chimaeric animals, we
show that this defect is intrinsic to erythroid cells, but nevertheless cell
nonautonomous. Usually, cell nonautonomy is thought to reflect aberrant gene
function in cells other than those that exhibit the phenotype. On the basis of
our data, we propose an alternative mechanism in which a signal originating from 
wild-type erythroid cells restores normal differentiation to cells overexpressing
GATA-1 in vivo. The existence of such a signalling mechanism indicates that
previous interpretations of cell-nonautonomous defects may be erroneous in some
cases and may in fact assign gene function to incorrect cell types.

DOI: 10.1038/35020086 
PMID: 10952313  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Nature. 2000 Aug 3;406(6795):515-9.

Genetic and epigenetic mechanisms contribute to motor neuron pathfinding.

Sharma K(1), Leonard AE, Lettieri K, Pfaff SL.

Author information: 
(1)Gene Expression Laboratory, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La
Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Many lines of evidence indicate that genetically distinct subtypes of motor
neurons are specified during development, with each type having characteristic
properties of axon guidance and cell-body migration. Motor neuron subtypes
express unique combinations of LIM-type homeodomain factors that may act as
intrinsic genetic regulators of the cytoskeletal events that mediate cell
migration, axon navigation or both. Although experimentally displaced motor
neurons can pioneer new routes to their targets, in many cases the axons of motor
neurons in complete isolation from their normal territories passively follow
stereotypical pathways dictated by the environment. To investigate the
nonspecific versus genetically controlled regulation of motor connectivity we
forced all motor neurons to express ectopically a LIM gene combination
appropriate for the subgroup that innervates axial muscles. Here we show that
this genetic alteration is sufficient to convert the cell body settling pattern, 
gene-expression profile and axonal projections of all motor neurons to that of
the axial subclass. Nevertheless, elevated occupancy of the axial pathway can
override their genetic program, causing some axons to project to alternative
targets.

DOI: 10.1038/35020078 
PMID: 10952312  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Nature. 2000 Aug 3;406(6795):512-5.

Herbivory-induced volatiles elicit defence genes in lima bean leaves.

Arimura G(1), Ozawa R, Shimoda T, Nishioka T, Boland W, Takabayashi J.

Author information: 
(1)Bio-oriented Technology Research Advancement Institution, Tokyo, Japan.

In response to herbivore damage, several plant species emit volatiles that
attract natural predators of the attacking herbivores. Using spider mites
(Tetranychus urticae) and predatory mites (Phytoseiulus persimilis), it has been 
shown that not only the attacked plant but also neighbouring plants are affected,
becoming more attractive to predatory mites and less susceptible to spider mites.
The mechanism involved in such interactions, however, remains elusive. Here we
show that uninfested lima bean leaves activate five separate defence genes when
exposed to volatiles from conspecific leaves infested with T. urticae, but not
when exposed to volatiles from artificially wounded leaves. The expression
pattern of these genes is similar to that produced by exposure to jasmonic acid. 
At least three terpenoids in the volatiles are responsible for this gene
activation; they are released in response to herbivory but not artificial
wounding. Expression of these genes requires calcium influx and protein
phosphorylation/dephosphorylation.

DOI: 10.1038/35020072 
PMID: 10952311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Nature. 2000 Aug 3;406(6795):508-12.

Diversity peaks at intermediate productivity in a laboratory microcosm.

Kassen R(1), Buckling A, Bell G, Rainey PB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
rkassen@bio1.lan.mcgill.ca

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 3;406(6795):463-4.

The species diversity of natural communities is often strongly related to their
productivity. The pattern of this relationship seems to vary: diversity is known 
to increase monotonically with productivity, to decrease monotonically with
productivity, and to be unimodally related to productivity, with maximum
diversity occurring at intermediate levels of productivity. The mechanism
underlying these patterns remains obscure, although many possibilities have been 
suggested. Here we outline a simple mechanism--involving selection in a
heterogeneous environment--to explain these patterns, and test it using
laboratory cultures of the bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens. We grew diverse
cultures over a wide range of nutrient concentrations, and found a strongly
unimodal relationship between diversity and productivity in heterogeneous, but
not in homogeneous, environments. Our result provides experimental evidence that 
the unimodal relationship often observed in natural communities can be caused by 
selection for specialized types in a heterogeneous environment.

DOI: 10.1038/35020060 
PMID: 10952310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Nature. 2000 Aug 3;406(6795):504-7.

Ocean circulation off east Antarctica affects ecosystem structure and sea-ice
extent.

Nicol S(1), Pauly T, Bindoff NL, Wright S, Thiele D, Hosie GW, Strutton PG,
Woehler E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of the Environment and Heritage, Channel Highway, Kingston,
Tasmania, Australia. stephe_nic@antdiv.gov.au

Sea ice and oceanic boundaries have a dominant effect in structuring Antarctic
marine ecosystems. Satellite imagery and historical data have identified the
southern boundary of the Antarctic Circumpolar Current as a site of enhanced
biological productivity. Meso-scale surveys off the Antarctic peninsula have
related the abundances of Antarctic krill (Euphausia superba) and salps (Salpa
thompsoni) to inter-annual variations in sea-ice extent. Here we have examined
the ecosystem structure and oceanography spanning 3,500 km of the east Antarctic 
coastline, linking the scales of local surveys and global observations. Between
80 degrees and 150 degrees E there is a threefold variation in the extent of
annual sea-ice cover, enabling us to examine the regional effects of sea ice and 
ocean circulation on biological productivity. Phytoplankton, primary
productivity, Antarctic krill, whales and seabirds were concentrated where winter
sea-ice extent is maximal, whereas salps were located where the sea-ice extent is
minimal. We found enhanced biological activity south of the southern boundary of 
the Antarctic Circumpolar Current rather than in association with it. We propose 
that along this coastline ocean circulation determines both the sea-ice
conditions and the level of biological productivity at all trophic levels.

DOI: 10.1038/35020053 
PMID: 10952309  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Nature. 2000 Aug 3;406(6795):500-4.

Annual modulation of triggered seismicity following the 1992 Landers earthquake
in California

Gao SS(1), Silver PG, Linde AT, Sacks IS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Terrestrial Magnetism, Carnegie Institution of Washington, DC
20015, USA. sgao@ksu.edu

The mechanism responsible for the triggering of earthquakes remains one of the
least-understood aspects of the earthquake process. The magnitude-7.3 Landers,
California earthquake of 28 June 1992 was followed for several weeks by triggered
seismic activity over a large area, encompassing much of the western United
States. Here we show that this triggered seismicity marked the beginning of a
five-year trend, consisting of an elevated microearthquake rate that was
modulated by an annual cycle, decaying with time. The annual cycle is mainly
associated with several hydrothermal or volcanic regions where short-term
triggering was also observed. These data indicate that the Landers earthquake
produced long-term physical changes in these areas, and that an environmental
source of stress--plausibly barometric pressure--might be responsible for the
annual variation.

DOI: 10.1038/35020045 
PMID: 10952308 


412. Nature. 2000 Aug 3;406(6795):497-500.

Marine control of biological production in the eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean.

Loubere P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Environmental Geosciences, Northern Illinois
University, DeKalb 60115, USA. paul@geol.niu.edu

The eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean is the site of approximately 20-50% of new
biological production in the global oceans. This region is also responsible for
the greatest efflux of CO2 from oceans to the atmosphere. New production, which
fixes carbon in response to external inputs of nutrients as opposed to supply
from local nutrient recycling, is thought to modulate the CO2 release. But what
controls new production in this region is less clear. Here we present a
quantitative reconstruction of biological production in the surface ocean for
this region over the past 130,000 years, which shows that the equatorial Pacific 
Ocean exhibits higher-frequency variations than the South Equatorial Current.
Comparison of these records with palaeotemperature reconstructions indicates that
atmospherically driven mechanisms--such as aeolian flux of iron or wind-driven
changes in upwelling rate of nutrient-rich waters--are unlikely to have
influenced longer-term rates of production in this region. Instead, biological
production appears to be governed by changes in ocean circulation and the
chemical composition of upwelled water.

DOI: 10.1038/35020041 
PMID: 10952307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Nature. 2000 Aug 3;406(6795):494-7.

Quasi-planar nucleus structure in apoferritin crystallization.

Yau ST(1), Vekilov PG.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Microgravity and Materials Research, University of Alabama in
Huntsville, 35899, USA.

First-order phase transitions of matter, such as condensation and
crystallization, proceed through the formation and subsequent growth of 'critical
nuclei' of the new phase. The thermodynamics and kinetics of the formation of
these critical nuclei depend on their structure, which is often assumed to be a
compact, three-dimensional arrangement of the constituent molecules or atoms.
Recent molecular dynamics simulations have predicted compact nucleus structures
for matter made up of building blocks with a spherical interaction field, whereas
strongly anisotropic, dipolar molecules may form nuclei consisting of single
chains of molecules. Here we show, using direct atomic force microscopy
observations, that the near-critical-size clusters formed during the
crystallization of apoferritin, a quasi-spherical protein, and which are
representative of the critical nucleus of this system, consist of planar arrays
of one or two monomolecular layers that contain 5-10 rods of up to 7 molecules
each. We find that these clusters contain between 20 and 50 molecules each, and
that the arrangement of the constituent molecules is identical to that found in
apoferritin crystals. We anticipate that similarly unexpected critical nucleus
structures may be quite common, particularly with anisotropic molecules,
suggesting that advanced nucleation theories should treat the critical nucleus
structure as a variable.

DOI: 10.1038/35020035 
PMID: 10952306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Nature. 2000 Aug 3;406(6795):491-4.

Electrostatic trapping of ammonia molecules

Bethlem HL(1), Berden G, Crompvoets FM, Jongma RT, van Roij AJ, Meijer G.

Author information: 
(1)FOM-Institute for Plasma Physics Rijnhuizen, Nieuwegein, The Netherlands.

The ability to cool and slow atoms with light for subsequent trapping allows
investigations of the properties and interactions of the trapped atoms in
unprecedented detail. By contrast, the complex structure of molecules prohibits
this type of manipulation, but magnetic trapping of calcium hydride molecules
thermalized in ultra-cold buffer gas and optical trapping of caesium dimers
generated from ultra-cold caesium atoms have been reported. However, these
methods depend on the target molecules being paramagnetic or able to form through
the association of atoms amenable to laser cooling, respectively, thus
restricting the range of species that can be studied. Here we describe the
slowing of an adiabatically cooled beam of deuterated ammonia molecules by
time-varying inhomogeneous electric fields and subsequent loading into an
electrostatic trap. We are able to trap state-selected ammonia molecules with a
density of 10(6) cm(-3) in a volume of 0.25 cm3 at temperatures below 0.35 K. We 
observe pronounced density oscillations caused by the rapid switching of the
electric fields during loading of the trap. Our findings illustrate that polar
molecules can be efficiently cooled and trapped, thus providing an opportunity to
study collisions and collective quantum effects in a wide range of ultra-cold
molecular systems.

DOI: 10.1038/35020030 
PMID: 10952305 


415. Nature. 2000 Aug 3;406(6795):489-91.

Pixel switching of epitaxial Pd/YHx/CaF2 switchable mirrors

Kerssemakers JW(1), van der Molen SJ, Koeman NJ, Gunther R, Griessen R.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Physics and Astronomy, Faculty of Sciences, Vrije Universiteit,
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Exposure of rare-earth films to hydrogen can induce a metal-insulator transition,
accompanied by pronounced optical changes. This 'switchable mirror' effect has
received considerable attention from theoretical, experimental and technological 
points of view. Most systems use polycrystalline films, but the synthesis of
yttrium-based epitaxial switchable mirrors has also been reported. The latter
form an extended self-organized ridge network during initial hydrogen loading,
which results in the creation of micrometre-sized triangular domains. Here we
observe homogeneous and essentially independent optical switching of individual
domains in epitaxial switchable mirrors during hydrogen absorption. The optical
switching is accompanied by topographical changes as the domains sequentially
expand and contract; the ridges block lateral hydrogen diffusion and serve as a
microscopic lubricant for the domain oscillations. We observe the correlated
changes in topology and optical properties using in situ atomic force and optical
microscopy. Single-domain phase switching is not observed in polycrystalline
films, which are optically homogeneous. The ability to generate a tunable, dense 
pattern of switchable pixels is of technological relevance for solid-state
displays based on switchable mirrors.

DOI: 10.1038/35020024 
PMID: 10952304 


416. Nature. 2000 Aug 3;406(6795):486-8.

Vortex-like excitations and the onset of superconducting phase fluctuation in
underdoped La(2-x)Sr(x)CuO4

Xu ZA(1), Ong NP, Wang Y, Kakeshita T, Uchida S.

Author information: 
(1)Joseph Henry Laboratories of Physics, Princeton University, New Jersey 08544, 
USA.

Two general features of a superconductor, which appear at the critical
temperature, are the formation of an energy gap and the expulsion of magnetic
flux (the Meissner effect). In underdoped copper oxides, there is strong evidence
that an energy gap (the pseudogap) opens up at a temperature significantly higher
than the critical temperature (by 100-220 K). Certain features of the pseudogap
suggest that it is closely related to the gap that appears at the critical
temperature (for example, the variation of the gap magnitudes around the Fermi
surface and their maximum amplitudes are very similar). However, the Meissner
effect is absent in the pseudogap state. The nature of the pseudogap state, and
its relation (if any) to the superconducting state are central issues in
understanding copper oxide superconductivity. Recent evidence suggests that, in
the underdoped regime, the Meissner state is destroyed above the critical
temperature by strong phase fluctuations (as opposed to a vanishing of the
superfluid density). Here we report evidence for vortices (or vortex-like
excitations) in La(2-x)Sr(x)CuO4 at temperatures significantly above the critical
temperature. A thermal gradient is applied to the sample in a magnetic field.
Vortices are detected by the large transverse electric field produced as they
diffuse down the gradient (the Nernst effect). We find that the Nernst signal is 
anomalously enhanced at temperatures as high as 150 K.

DOI: 10.1038/35020016 
PMID: 10952303 


417. Nature. 2000 Aug 3;406(6795):484-6.

Evidence for free precession in a pulsar

Stairs IH(1), Lyne AG, Shemar SL.

Author information: 
(1)University of Manchester, Jodrell Bank Observatory, Macclesfield, UK.

Pulsars are rotating neutron stars that produce lighthouse-like beams of radio
emission from their magnetic poles. The observed pulse of emission enables their 
rotation rates to be measured with great precision. For some young pulsars, this 
provides a means of studying the interior structure of neutron stars. Most
pulsars have stable pulse shapes, and slow down steadily (for example, see ref.
20). Here we report the discovery of long-term, highly periodic and correlated
variations in both the pulse shape and the rate of slow-down of the pulsar PSR
B1828-11. The variations are best described as harmonically related sinusoids,
with periods of approximately 1,000, 500 and 250 days, probably resulting from
precession of the spin axis caused by an asymmetry in the shape of the pulsar.
This is difficult to understand theoretically, because torque-free precession of 
a solitary pulsar should be damped out by the vortices in its superfluid
interior.

DOI: 10.1038/35020010 
PMID: 10952302 


418. Nature. 2000 Aug 3;406(6795):477-83.

DNA sequence of both chromosomes of the cholera pathogen Vibrio cholerae.

Heidelberg JF(1), Eisen JA, Nelson WC, Clayton RA, Gwinn ML, Dodson RJ, Haft DH, 
Hickey EK, Peterson JD, Umayam L, Gill SR, Nelson KE, Read TD, Tettelin H,
Richardson D, Ermolaeva MD, Vamathevan J, Bass S, Qin H, Dragoi I, Sellers P,
McDonald L, Utterback T, Fleishmann RD, Nierman WC, White O, Salzberg SL, Smith
HO, Colwell RR, Mekalanos JJ, Venter JC, Fraser CM.

Author information: 
(1)The Institute for Genomic Research, Rockville, Maryland 20850, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 3;406(6795):469-70.

Here we determine the complete genomic sequence of the gram negative,
gamma-Proteobacterium Vibrio cholerae El Tor N16961 to be 4,033,460 base pairs
(bp). The genome consists of two circular chromosomes of 2,961,146 bp and
1,072,314 bp that together encode 3,885 open reading frames. The vast majority of
recognizable genes for essential cell functions (such as DNA replication,
transcription, translation and cell-wall biosynthesis) and pathogenicity (for
example, toxins, surface antigens and adhesins) are located on the large
chromosome. In contrast, the small chromosome contains a larger fraction (59%) of
hypothetical genes compared with the large chromosome (42%), and also contains
many more genes that appear to have origins other than the gamma-Proteobacteria. 
The small chromosome also carries a gene capture system (the integron island) and
host 'addiction' genes that are typically found on plasmids; thus, the small
chromosome may have originally been a megaplasmid that was captured by an
ancestral Vibrio species. The V. cholerae genomic sequence provides a starting
point for understanding how a free-living, environmental organism emerged to
become a significant human bacterial pathogen.

DOI: 10.1038/35020000 
PMID: 10952301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Nature. 2000 Jul 27;406(6794):435-9.

Humanized xenobiotic response in mice expressing nuclear receptor SXR.

Xie W(1), Barwick JL, Downes M, Blumberg B, Simon CM, Nelson MC,
Neuschwander-Tetri BA, Brunt EM, Guzelian PS, Evans RM.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Gene Expression Laboratory, The Salk
Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

The cytochrome CYP3A gene products, expressed in mammalian liver, are essential
for the metabolism of lipophilic substrates, including endogenous steroid
hormones and prescription drugs. CYP3A enzymes are extremely versatile and are
inducible by many of their natural and xenobiotic substrates. Consequently, they 
form the molecular basis for many clinical drug-drug interactions. The induction 
of CYP3A enzymes is species-specific, and we have postulated that it involves one
or more cellular factors, or receptor-like xeno-sensors. Here we identify one
such factor unequivocally as the nuclear receptor pregnenolone X receptor (PXR)
and its human homologue, steroid and xenobiotic receptor (SXR). We show that
targeted disruption of the mouse PXR gene abolishes induction of CYP3A by
prototypic inducers such as dexamethasone or pregnenolone-16alpha-carbonitrile.
In transgenic mice, an activated form of SXR causes constitutive upregulation of 
CYP3A gene expression and enhanced protection against toxic xenobiotic compounds.
Furthermore, we show that the species origin of the receptor, rather than the
promoter structure of CYP3A genes, dictates the species-specific pattern of CYP3A
inducibility. Thus, we can generate 'humanized' transgenic mice that are
responsive to human-specific inducers such as the antibiotic rifampicin. We
conclude that SXR/PXR genes encode the primary species-specific xeno-sensors that
mediate the adaptive hepatic response, and may represent the critical biochemical
mechanism of human xenoprotection.

DOI: 10.1038/35019116 
PMID: 10935643  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Nature. 2000 Jul 27;406(6794):430-5.

Chfr defines a mitotic stress checkpoint that delays entry into metaphase.

Scolnick DM(1), Halazonetis TD.

Author information: 
(1)The Wistar Institute, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104-4268, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jul 27;406(6794):354-6.

Chemicals that target microtubules induce mitotic stress by affecting several
processes that occur during mitosis. These processes include separation of the
centrosomes in prophase, alignment of the chromosomes on the spindle in metaphase
and sister-chromatid separation in anaphase. Many human cancers are sensitive to 
mitotic stress. This sensitivity is being exploited for therapy and implies
checkpoint defects. The known mitotic checkpoint genes, which prevent entry into 
anaphase when the chromosomes are not properly aligned on the mitotic spindle,
are, however, rarely inactivated in human cancer. Here we describe the chfr gene,
which is inactivated owing to lack of expression or by mutation in four out of
eight human cancer cell lines examined. Normal primary cells and tumour cell
lines that express wild-type chfr exhibited delayed entry into metaphase when
centrosome separation was inhibited by mitotic stress. In contrast, the tumour
cell lines that had lost chfr function entered metaphase without delay. Ectopic
expression of wild-type chfr restored the cell cycle delay and increased the
ability of the cells to survive mitotic stress. Thus, chfr defines a checkpoint
that delays entry into metaphase in response to mitotic stress.

DOI: 10.1038/35019108 
PMID: 10935642  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


421. Nature. 2000 Jul 27;406(6794):426-30.

CD3delta couples T-cell receptor signalling to ERK activation and thymocyte
positive selection.

Delgado P(1), Fernández E, Dave V, Kappes D, Alarcón B.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Biología Molecular Severo Ochoa, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones
Científicas, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Spain.

Thymocytes from mice lacking the CD3delta chain of the T-cell receptor (TCR),
unlike those of other CD3-deficient mice, progress from a CD4- CD8-
double-negative to a CD4+ CD8+ double-positive stage. However, CD3delta-/-
double-positive cells fail to undergo positive selection, by which
double-positive cells differentiate into more mature thymocytes. Positive
selection is also impaired in mice expressing inactive components of the
Ras/mitogen activated protein (MAP) kinase signalling pathway. Here we show that 
CD3delta-/- thymocytes are defective in the induction of extracellular
signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) MAP kinases upon TCR engagement, whereas
activation of other MAP kinases is unaffected. The requirement for CD3delta maps 
to its extracellular or transmembrane domains, or both, as expression of a
tail-less CD3delta rescues both ERK activation and positive selection in
CD3delta-/- mice. Furthermore, the defect correlates with severely impaired
tyrosine phosphorylation of the linker protein LAT, and of the CD3zeta chain that
is localized to membrane lipid rafts upon TCR engagement. Our data indicate that 
the blockade of positive selection of CD3delta-/- thymocytes may derive from
defective tyrosine phosphorylation of CD3zeta in lipid rafts, resulting in
impaired activation of the LAT/Ras/ERK pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/35019102 
PMID: 10935641  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Nature. 2000 Jul 27;406(6794):422-6.

A motif in the alphabeta T-cell receptor controls positive selection by
modulating ERK activity.

Werlen G(1), Hausmann B, Palmer E.

Author information: 
(1)Basel Institute for Immunology, Switzerland. werlen@bii.ch

Positive selection allows thymocytes that recognize an individual's own major
histocompatibility complex (self-MHC) molecules to survive and differentiate,
whereas negative selection removes overtly self-reactive thymocytes. Although
both forms of thymic selection are mediated by the alphabeta T-cell receptor
(TCR) and require self-MHC recognition, an important question is whether they are
controlled by distinct signalling cascades. We have shown that mutation of an
essential motif within the TCR alpha-chain-connecting peptide domain (alpha-CPM) 
profoundly affects positive but not negative selection. Using transgenic mice
expressing a mutant alpha-CPM TCR we examined the contribution of several
mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades to thymic selection. Here we
show that in thymocytes expressing a mutant alpha-CPM receptor, a positively
selecting peptide failed to activate the extracellular signal-regulated kinase
(ERK), although other MAPK cascades were induced normally. The defect in ERK
activation was associated with impaired recruitment of the activated tyrosine
kinases Lck and ZAP-70, phosphorylated forms of the TCR component CD3zeta and the
adaptor protein LAT to detergent-insoluble glycolipid-enriched microdomains
(DIGs). Therefore, an intact DIG-associated signalosome is essential for
sustained ERK activation, which leads to positive selection.

DOI: 10.1038/35019094 
PMID: 10935640  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Nature. 2000 Jul 27;406(6794):419-22.

GATA3 haplo-insufficiency causes human HDR syndrome.

Van Esch H(1), Groenen P, Nesbit MA, Schuffenhauer S, Lichtner P, Vanderlinden G,
Harding B, Beetz R, Bilous RW, Holdaway I, Shaw NJ, Fryns JP, Van de Ven W,
Thakker RV, Devriendt K.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Molecular Oncology, Centre for Human Genetics, University of
Leuven and Flanders Interuniversity Institute for Biotechnology, Belgium.

Terminal deletions of chromosome 10p result in a DiGeorge-like phenotype that
includes hypoparathyroidism, heart defects, immune deficiency, deafness and renal
malformations. Studies in patients with 10p deletions have defined two
non-overlapping regions that contribute to this complex phenotype. These are the 
DiGeorge critical region II (refs 1, 2), which is located on 10p13-14, and the
region for the hypoparathyroidism, sensorineural deafness, renal anomaly (HDR)
syndrome (Mendelian Inheritance in Man number 146255), which is located more
telomeric (10p14-10pter). We have performed deletion-mapping studies in two HDR
patients, and here we define a critical 200-kilobase region which contains the
GATA3 gene. This gene belongs to a family of zinc-finger transcription factors
that are involved in vertebrate embryonic development. Investigation for GATA3
mutations in three other HDR probands identified one nonsense mutation and two
intragenic deletions that predicted a loss of function, as confirmed by absence
of DNA binding by the mutant GATA3 protein. These results show that GATA3 is
essential in the embryonic development of the parathyroids, auditory system and
kidneys, and indicate that other GATA family members may be involved in the
aetiology of human malformations.

DOI: 10.1038/35019088 
PMID: 10935639  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Nature. 2000 Jul 27;406(6794):415-8.

Mice overexpressing human uncoupling protein-3 in skeletal muscle are hyperphagic
and lean.

Clapham JC(1), Arch JR, Chapman H, Haynes A, Lister C, Moore GB, Piercy V, Carter
SA, Lehner I, Smith SA, Beeley LJ, Godden RJ, Herrity N, Skehel M, Changani KK,
Hockings PD, Reid DG, Squires SM, Hatcher J, Trail B, Latcham J, Rastan S, Harper
AJ, Cadenas S, Buckingham JA, Brand MD, Abuin A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Vascular Biology, SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, Harlow,
Essex, UK. JohnvClapham-1@sbphrd.com

Uncoupling protein-3 (UCP-3) is a recently identified member of the mitochondrial
transporter superfamily that is expressed predominantly in skeletal muscle.
However, its close relative UCP-1 is expressed exclusively in brown adipose
tissue, a tissue whose main function is fat combustion and thermogenesis. Studies
on the expression of UCP-3 in animals and humans in different physiological
situations support a role for UCP-3 in energy balance and lipid metabolism.
However, direct evidence for these roles is lacking. Here we describe the
creation of transgenic mice that overexpress human UCP-3 in skeletal muscle.
These mice are hyperphagic but weigh less than their wild-type littermates.
Magnetic resonance imaging shows a striking reduction in adipose tissue mass. The
mice also exhibit lower fasting plasma glucose and insulin levels and an
increased glucose clearance rate. This provides evidence that skeletal muscle
UCP-3 has the potential to influence metabolic rate and glucose homeostasis in
the whole animal.

DOI: 10.1038/35019082 
PMID: 10935638  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Nature. 2000 Jul 27;406(6794):411-5.

Glycosyltransferase activity of Fringe modulates Notch-Delta interactions.

Brückner K(1), Perez L, Clausen H, Cohen S.

Author information: 
(1)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Heidelberg, Germany.

Erratum in
    Nature 2000 Oct 5;407(6804):654.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jul 27;406(6794):357-8.

Ligands that are capable of activating Notch family receptors are broadly
expressed in animal development, but their activity is tightly regulated to allow
formation of tissue boundaries. Members of the fringe gene family have been
implicated in limiting Notch activation during boundary formation, but the
mechanism of Fringe function has not been determined. Here we present evidence
that Fringe acts in the Golgi as a glycosyltransferase enzyme that modifies the
epidermal growth factor (EGF) modules of Notch and alters the ability of Notch to
bind its ligand Delta. Fringe catalyses the addition of N-acetylglucosamine to
fucose, which is consistent with a role in the elongation of O-linked fucose
O-glycosylation that is associated with EGF repeats. We suggest that
cell-type-specific modification of glycosylation may provide a general mechanism 
to regulate ligand-receptor interactions in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/35019075 
PMID: 10935637  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Nature. 2000 Jul 27;406(6794):405-10.

State-dependent cross-inhibition between transmitter-gated cation channels.

Khakh BS(1), Zhou X, Sydes J, Galligan JJ, Lester HA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena 91125, USA. 
balkhakh@its.caltech.edu

Transmitter-gated cation channels are detectors of excitatory chemical signals at
synapses in the nervous system. Here we show that structurally distinct
alpha3beta4 nicotinic and P2X2 channels influence each other when co-activated.
The activation of one channel type affects distinct kinetic and conductance
states of the other, and co-activation results in non-additive responses owing to
inhibition of both channel types. State-dependent inhibition of nicotinic
channels is revealed most clearly with mutant P2X2 channels, and inhibition is
decreased at lower densities of channel expression. In synaptically coupled
myenteric neurons, nicotinic fast excitatory postsynaptic currents are occluded
during activation of endogenously co-expressed P2X channels. Our data provide a
molecular basis and a synaptic context for cross-inhibition between
transmitter-gated channels.

DOI: 10.1038/35019066 
PMID: 10935636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Nature. 2000 Jul 27;406(6794):404-5.

Long-term vocal recognition in the northern fur seal.

Insley SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Animal Behavior Group, University of California, Davis 95616, USA.
sinsley@nzp.si.edu

The ability to recognize and remember individual identities for long periods of
time has important implications for the evolution of animal social behaviour,
particularly complex interactions such as cooperation or mate choice. Despite
this importance, there is only a single example of long-term individual
recognition in nature, the 8-month retention of neighbour's song among male
hooded warblers, Wilsonia citrina, and there is none for a non-human mammal.
Associations between individuals spanning years, which are especially prevalent
in carnivores, primates and seabirds, and evidence of mate fidelity provide
indirect support for the ability of long-term recognition. In many of these
instances, however, individuals do not separate for extended periods, and thus
long-term recognition, although often assumed, may be both unnecessary and
nonexistent. Furthermore, site fidelity rather than individual recognition may
explain many instances of mate fidelity. Here I show that mother-offspring pairs 
of a migratory otariid pinniped--the northern fur seal (Callorhinus ursinus)--not
only have the ability to recognize each other's vocalizations during the course
of a breeding season, but are also able to retain these memories for at least 4
years.

DOI: 10.1038/35019064 
PMID: 10935635  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Nature. 2000 Jul 27;406(6794):399-404.

Mutation and sex in a competitive world.

Peck JR(1), Waxman D.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for the Study of Evolution, The University of Sussex, Brighton, UK.
j.r.peck@sussex.ac.uk

How do deleterious mutations interact to affect fitness? The answer to this
question has substantial implications for a variety of important problems in
population biology, including the evolution of sex, the rate of adaptation and
the conservation of small populations. Here we analyse a mathematical model of
competition for food in which deleterious mutations affect competitive ability.
We show that, if individuals usually compete in small groups, then competition
can easily lead to a type of genetic interaction known as synergistic epistasis. 
This means that a deleterious mutation is most damaging in a genome that already 
has many other deleterious mutations. We also show that competition in small
groups can produce a large advantage for sexual populations, both in mean fitness
and in ability to resist invasion by asexual lineages. One implication of our
findings is that experimental efforts to demonstrate synergistic epistasis may
not succeed unless the experiments are redesigned to make them much more
naturalistic.

DOI: 10.1038/35019055 
PMID: 10935634  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Nature. 2000 Jul 27;406(6794):396-9.

Evidence for a late chondritic veneer in the Earth's mantle from high-pressure
partitioning of palladium and platinum

Holzheid A(1), Sylvester P, O'Neill HS, Rubie DC, Palme HS.

Author information: 
(1)Universitat zu Koln, Institut fur Mineralogie und Geochemie, Germany.
holzheid@uni-muenster.de

The high-pressure solubility in silicate liquids of moderately siderophile
'iron-loving' elements (such as nickel and cobalt) has been used to suggest that,
in the early Earth, an equilibrium between core-forming metals and the silicate
mantle was established at the bottom of a magma ocean. But observed
concentrations of the highly siderophile elements--such as the platinum-group
elements platinum, palladium, rhenium, iridium, ruthenium and osmium--in the
Earth's upper mantle can be explained by such a model only if their
metal-silicate partition coefficients at high pressure are orders of magnitude
lower than those determined experimentally at one atmosphere (refs 3-8). Here we 
present an experimental determination of the solubility of palladium and platinum
in silicate melts as a function of pressure to 16 GPa (corresponding to about 500
km depth in the Earth). We find that both the palladium and platinum
metal-silicate partition coefficients, derived from solubility, do not decrease
with pressure--that is, palladium and platinum retain a strong preference for the
metal phase even at high pressures. Consequently the observed abundances of
palladium and platinum in the upper mantle seem to be best explained by a 'late
veneer' addition of chondritic material to the upper mantle following the
cessation of core formation.

DOI: 10.1038/35019050 
PMID: 10935633 


430. Nature. 2000 Jul 27;406(6794):392-5.

Massive dissociation of gas hydrate during a Jurassic oceanic anoxic event

Hesselbo SP(1), Grocke DR, Jenkyns HC, Bjerrum CJ, Farrimond P, Morgans Bell HS, 
Green OR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Oxford, UK.
stephen.hesselbo@earth.ox.ac.uk

In the Jurassic period, the Early Toarcian oceanic anoxic event (about 183
million years ago) is associated with exceptionally high rates of organic-carbon 
burial, high palaeotemperatures and significant mass extinction. Heavy
carbon-isotope compositions in rocks and fossils of this age have been linked to 
the global burial of organic carbon, which is isotopically light. In contrast,
examples of light carbon-isotope values from marine organic matter of Early
Toarcian age have been explained principally in terms of localized upwelling of
bottom water enriched in 12C versus 13C (refs 1,2,5,6). Here, however, we report 
carbon-isotope analyses of fossil wood which demonstrate that isotopically light 
carbon dominated all the upper oceanic, biospheric and atmospheric carbon
reservoirs, and that this occurred despite the enhanced burial of organic carbon.
We propose that--as has been suggested for the Late Palaeocene thermal maximum,
some 55 million years ago--the observed patterns were produced by voluminous and 
extremely rapid release of methane from gas hydrate contained in marine
continental-margin sediments.

DOI: 10.1038/35019044 
PMID: 10935632 


431. Nature. 2000 Jul 27;406(6794):389-91.

Oscillatory cluster patterns in a homogeneous chemical system with global
feedback

Vanag VK(1), Yang L, Dolnik M, Zhabotinsky AM, Epstein IR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Volen Center for Complex Systems, Brandeis
University, Waltham, Massachusetts 02454-9110, USA.

Oscillatory clusters are sets of domains in which nearly all elements in a given 
domain oscillate with the same amplitude and phase. They play an important role
in understanding coupled neuron systems. In the simplest case, a system consists 
of two clusters that oscillate in antiphase and can each occupy multiple fixed
spatial domains. Examples of cluster behaviour in extended chemical systems are
rare, but have been shown to resemble standing waves, except that they lack a
characteristic wavelength. Here we report the observation of so-called 'localized
clusters'--periodic antiphase oscillations in one part of the medium, while the
remainder appears uniform--in the Belousov-Zhabotinsky reaction-diffusion system 
with photochemical global feedback. We also observe standing clusters with fixed 
spatial domains that oscillate periodically in time and occupy the entire medium,
and irregular clusters with no periodicity in either space or time, with standing
clusters transforming into irregular clusters and then into localized clusters as
the strength of the global negative feedback is gradually increased. By
incorporating the effects of global feedback into a model of the reaction, we are
able to simulate successfully the experimental data.

DOI: 10.1038/35019038 
PMID: 10935631 


432. Nature. 2000 Jul 27;406(6794):385-9.

Signatures of granular microstructure in dense shear flows

Mueth DM(1), Debregeas GF, Karczmar GS, Eng PJ, Nagel SR, Jaeger HM.

Author information: 
(1)The James Franck Institute and Department of Physics, University of Chicago,
Illinois 60637, USA.

Granular materials and ordinary fluids react differently to shear stresses.
Rather than deforming uniformly, materials such as dry sand or cohesionless
powders develop shear bands--narrow zones of large relative particle motion, with
essentially rigid adjacent regions. Because shear bands mark areas of flow,
material failure and energy dissipation, they are important in many industrial,
civil engineering and geophysical processes. They are also relevant to
lubricating fluids confined to ultrathin molecular layers. However, detailed
three-dimensional information on motion within a shear band, including the degree
of particle rotation and interparticle slip, is lacking. Similarly, very little
is known about how the microstructure of individual grains affects movement in
densely packed material. Here we combine magnetic resonance imaging, X-ray
tomography and high-speed-video particle tracking to obtain the local
steady-state particle velocity, rotation and packing density for shear flow in a 
three-dimensional Couette geometry. We find that key characteristics of the
granular microstructure determine the shape of the velocity profile.

DOI: 10.1038/35019032 
PMID: 10935630 


433. Nature. 2000 Jul 27;406(6794):382-5.

Controlled surface charging as a depth-profiling probe for mesoscopic layers

Doron-Mor I I(1), Hatzor A, Vaskevich A, van der Boom-Moav T, Shanzer A,
Rubinstein I I, Cohen H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials and Interfaces, Weizmann Institute of Science,
Rehovot, Israel.

Probing the structure of material layers just a few nanometres thick requires
analytical techniques with high depth sensitivity. X-ray photoelectron
spectroscopy (XPS) provides one such method, but obtaining vertically resolved
structural information from the raw data is not straightforward. There are
several XPS depth-profiling methods, including ion etching, angle-resolved XPS
(ref. 2) and Tougaard's approach, but all suffer various limitations. Here we
report a simple, non-destructive XPS depth-profiling method that yields accurate 
depth information with nanometre resolution. We demonstrate the technique using
self-assembled multilayers on gold surfaces; the former contain 'marker'
monolayers that have been inserted at predetermined depths. A controllable
potential gradient is established vertically through the sample by charging the
surface of the dielectric overlayer with an electron flood gun. The local
potential is probed by measuring XPS line shifts, which correlate directly with
the vertical position of atoms. We term the method 'controlled surface charging' 
and expect it to be generally applicable to a large variety of mesoscopic
heterostructures.

DOI: 10.1038/35019025 
PMID: 10935629 


434. Nature. 2000 Jul 27;406(6794):378-82.

Error and attack tolerance of complex networks

Albert R(1), Jeong H, Barabasi AL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, USA.

Many complex systems display a surprising degree of tolerance against errors. For
example, relatively simple organisms grow, persist and reproduce despite drastic 
pharmaceutical or environmental interventions, an error tolerance attributed to
the robustness of the underlying metabolic network. Complex communication
networks display a surprising degree of robustness: although key components
regularly malfunction, local failures rarely lead to the loss of the global
information-carrying ability of the network. The stability of these and other
complex systems is often attributed to the redundant wiring of the functional web
defined by the systems' components. Here we demonstrate that error tolerance is
not shared by all redundant systems: it is displayed only by a class of
inhomogeneously wired networks, called scale-free networks, which include the
World-Wide Web, the Internet, social networks and cells. We find that such
networks display an unexpected degree of robustness, the ability of their nodes
to communicate being unaffected even by unrealistically high failure rates.
However, error tolerance comes at a high price in that these networks are
extremely vulnerable to attacks (that is, to the selection and removal of a few
nodes that play a vital role in maintaining the network's connectivity). Such
error tolerance and attack vulnerability are generic properties of communication 
networks.

DOI: 10.1038/35019019 
PMID: 10935628 


435. Nature. 2000 Jul 27;406(6794):376-8.

Characterizing the nonlinear growth of large-scale structure in the Universe

Coles P(1), Chiang LY.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physics & Astronomy, University of Nottingham, University Park, UK. 
Peter.Coles@Nottingham.ac.uk

The local Universe displays a rich hierarchical pattern of galaxy clusters and
superclusters. The early Universe, however, was almost smooth, with only slight
'ripples' as seen in the cosmic microwave background radiation. Models of the
evolution of cosmic structure link these observations through the effect of
gravity, because the small initially overdense fluctuations are predicted to
attract additional mass as the Universe expands. During the early stages of this 
expansion, the ripples evolve independently, like linear waves on the surface of 
deep water. As the structures grow in mass, they interact with each other in
nonlinear ways, more like waves breaking in shallow water. We have recently shown
how cosmic structure can be characterized by phase correlations associated with
these nonlinear interactions, but it was not clear how to use that information to
obtain quantitative insights into the growth of structures. Here we report a
method of revealing phase information, and show quantitatively how this relates
to the formation of filaments, sheets and clusters of galaxies by nonlinear
collapse. We develop a statistical method based on information entropy to
separate linear from nonlinear effects, and thereby are able to disentangle those
aspects of galaxy clustering that arise from initial conditions (the ripples)
from the subsequent dynamical evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/35019009 
PMID: 10935627 


436. Nature. 2000 Jul 27;406(6794):369-75.

Fringe is a glycosyltransferase that modifies Notch.

Moloney DJ(1), Panin VM, Johnston SH, Chen J, Shao L, Wilson R, Wang Y, Stanley
P, Irvine KD, Haltiwanger RS, Vogt TF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, Institute for Cell and
Developmental Biology, SUNY-Stony Brook, New York 11794-5215, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jul 27;406(6794):357-8.

Notch receptors function in highly conserved intercellular signalling pathways
that direct cell-fate decisions, proliferation and apoptosis in metazoans. Fringe
proteins can positively and negatively modulate the ability of Notch ligands to
activate the Notch receptor. Here we establish the biochemical mechanism of
Fringe action. Drosophila and mammalian Fringe proteins possess a fucose-specific
beta1,3 N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity that initiates elongation of
O-linked fucose residues attached to epidermal growth factor-like sequence
repeats of Notch. We obtained biological evidence that Fringe-dependent
elongation of O-linked fucose on Notch modulates Notch signalling by using
co-culture assays in mammalian cells and by expression of an enzymatically
inactive Fringe mutant in Drosophila. The post-translational modification of
Notch by Fringe represents a striking example of modulation of a signalling event
by differential receptor glycosylation and identifies a mechanism that is likely 
to be relevant to other signalling pathways.

DOI: 10.1038/35019000 
PMID: 10935626  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):325-8.

Beta-helix structure and ice-binding properties of a hyperactive antifreeze
protein from an insect.

Graether SP(1), Kuiper MJ, Gagné SM, Walker VK, Jia Z, Sykes BD, Davies PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):249, 251.

Insect antifreeze proteins (AFP) are considerably more active at inhibiting ice
crystal growth than AFP from fish or plants. Several insect AFPs, also known as
thermal hysteresis proteins, have been cloned and expressed. Their maximum
activity is 3-4 times that of fish AFPs and they are 10-100 times more effective 
at micromolar concentrations. Here we report the solution structure of spruce
budworm (Choristoneura fumiferana) AFP and characterize its ice-binding
properties. The 9-kDa AFP is a beta-helix with a triangular cross-section and
rectangular sides that form stacked parallel beta-sheets; a fold which is
distinct from the three known fish AFP structures. The ice-binding side contains 
9 of the 14 surface-accessible threonines organized in a regular array of TXT
motifs that match the ice lattice on both prism and basal planes. In support of
this model, ice crystal morphology and ice-etching experiments are consistent
with AFP binding to both of these planes and thus may explain the greater
activity of the spruce budworm antifreeze.

DOI: 10.1038/35018610 
PMID: 10917537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):322-4.

Mimicry of ice structure by surface hydroxyls and water of a beta-helix
antifreeze protein.

Liou YC(1), Tocilj A, Davies PL, Jia Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):249, 251.

Insect antifreeze proteins (AFP) are much more effective than fish AFPs at
depressing solution freezing points by ice-growth inhibition. AFP from the beetle
Tenebrio molitor is a small protein (8.4 kDa) composed of tandem 12-residue
repeats (TCTxSxxCxxAx). Here we report its 1.4-A resolution crystal structure,
showing that this repetitive sequence translates into an exceptionally regular
beta-helix. Not only are the 12-amino-acid loops almost identical in the
backbone, but also the conserved side chains are positioned in essentially
identical orientations, making this AFP perhaps the most regular protein
structure yet observed. The protein has almost no hydrophobic core but is
stabilized by numerous disulphide and hydrogen bonds. On the conserved side of
the protein, threonine-cysteine-threonine motifs are arrayed to form a flat
beta-sheet, the putative ice-binding surface. The threonine side chains have
exactly the same rotameric conformation and the spacing between OH groups is a
near-perfect match to the ice lattice. Together with tightly bound co-planar
external water, three ranks of oxygen atoms form a two-dimensional array,
mimicking an ice section.

DOI: 10.1038/35018604 
PMID: 10917536  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):318-22.

A ratchet-like inter-subunit reorganization of the ribosome during translocation.

Frank J(1), Agrawal RK.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Health Research Incorporated at the Wadsworth
Center, and Department of Biomedical Sciences, State University of New York at
Albany, 12201-0509, USA.

The ribosome is a macromolecular assembly that is responsible for protein
biosynthesis following genetic instructions in all organisms. It is composed of
two unequal subunits: the smaller subunit binds messenger RNA and the anticodon
end of transfer RNAs, and helps to decode the mRNA; and the larger subunit
interacts with the amino-acid-carrying end of tRNAs and catalyses the formation
of the peptide bonds. After peptide-bond formation, elongation factor G (EF-G)
binds to the ribosome, triggering the translocation of peptidyl-tRNA from its
aminoacyl site to the peptidyl site, and movement of mRNA by one codon. Here we
analyse three-dimensional cryo-electron microscopy maps of the Escherichia coli
70S ribosome in various functional states, and show that both EF-G binding and
subsequent GTP hydrolysis lead to ratchet-like rotations of the small 30S subunit
relative to the large 50S subunit. Furthermore, our finding indicates a two-step 
mechanism of translocation: first, relative rotation of the subunits and opening 
of the mRNA channel following binding of GTP to EF-G; and second, advance of the 
mRNA/(tRNA)2 complex in the direction of the rotation of the 30S subunit,
following GTP hydrolysis.

DOI: 10.1038/35018597 
PMID: 10917535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):315-8.

A tertiary interaction that links active-site domains to the 5' splice site of a 
group II intron.

Boudvillain M(1), de Lencastre A, Pyle AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics and Howard Hughes Medical 
Institute, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.

Group II introns are self-splicing RNAs that are commonly found in the genes of
plants, fungi, yeast and bacteria. Little is known about the tertiary structure
of group II introns, which are among the largest natural ribozymes. The most
conserved region of the intron is domain 5 (D5), which, together with domain 1
(D1), is required for all reactions catalysed by the intron. Despite the
importance of D5, its spatial relationship and tertiary contacts to other
active-site constituents have remained obscure. Furthermore, D5 has never been
placed directly at a site of catalysis by the intron. Here we show that a set of 
tertiary interactions (lambda-lambda') links catalytically essential regions of
D5 and D1, creating the framework for an active-site and anchoring it at the 5'
splice site. Highly conserved elements similar to components of the
lambda-lambda' interaction are found in the eukaryotic spliceosome.

DOI: 10.1038/35018589 
PMID: 10917534  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):309-14.

A chemokine-driven positive feedback loop organizes lymphoid follicles.

Ansel KM(1), Ngo VN, Hyman PL, Luther SA, Förster R, Sedgwick JD, Browning JL,
Lipp M, Cyster JG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of California San
Francisco, 94143, USA.

Lymphoid follicles are B-cell-rich compartments of lymphoid organs that function 
as sites of B-cell antigen encounter and differentiation. CXC chemokine
receptor-5 (CXCR5) is required for B-cell migration to splenic follicles, but the
requirements for homing to B-cell areas in lymph nodes remain to be defined. Here
we show that lymph nodes contain two types of B-cell-rich compartment: follicles 
containing follicular dendritic cells, and areas lacking such cells. Using
gene-targeted mice, we establish that B-lymphocyte chemoattractant (BLC/BCA1) and
its receptor, CXCR5, are needed for B-cell homing to follicles in lymph nodes as 
well as in spleen. We also find that BLC is required for the development of most 
lymph nodes and Peyer's patches. In addition to mediating chemoattraction, BLC
induces B cells to up-regulate membrane lymphotoxin alpha1beta2, a cytokine that 
promotes follicular dendritic cell development and BLC expression, establishing a
positive feedback loop that is likely to be important in follicle development and
homeostasis. In germinal centres the feedback loop is overridden, with B-cell
lymphotoxin alpha1beta2 expression being induced by a mechanism independent of
BLC.

DOI: 10.1038/35018581 
PMID: 10917533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):306-9.

Presenilin is required for proper morphology and function of neurons in C.
elegans.

Wittenburg N(1), Eimer S, Lakowski B, Röhrig S, Rudolph C, Baumeister R.

Author information: 
(1)Genzentrum, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitaet, Munich, Germany.

Mutations in the human presenilin genes cause the most frequent and aggressive
forms of familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD). Here we show that in addition to its
role in cell fate decisions in non-neuronal tissues, presenilin activity is
required in terminally differentiated neurons in vivo. Mutations in the
Caenorhabditis elegans presenilin genes sel-12 and hop-1 result in a defect in
the temperature memory of the animals. This defect is caused by the loss of
presenilin function in two cholinergic interneurons that display neurite
morphology defects in presenilin mutants. The morphology and function of the
affected neurons in sel-12 mutant animals can be restored by expressing sel-12
only in these cells. The wild-type human presenilin PS1, but not the FAD mutant
PS1 A246E, can also rescue these morphological defects. As lin-12 mutant animals 
display similar morphological and functional defects to presenilin mutants, we
suggest that presenilins mediate their activity in postmitotic neurons by
facilitating Notch signalling. These data indicate cell-autonomous and
evolutionarily conserved control of neural morphology and function by
presenilins.

DOI: 10.1038/35018575 
PMID: 10917532  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):302-6.

Transformation from temporal to rate coding in a somatosensory thalamocortical
pathway.

Ahissar E(1), Sosnik R, Haidarliu S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, The Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot,
Israel. Ehud.Ahissar@weizmann.ac.il

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):245, 247.

The anatomical connections from the whiskers to the rodent somatosensory (barrel)
cortex form two parallel (lemniscal and paralemniscal) pathways. It is unclear
whether the paralemniscal pathway is directly involved in tactile processing,
because paralemniscal neuronal responses show poor spatial resolution, labile
latencies and strong dependence on cortical feedback. Here we show that the
paralemniscal system can transform temporally encoded vibrissal information into 
a rate code. We recorded the representations of the frequency of whisker movement
along the two pathways in anaesthetized rats. In response to varying stimulus
frequencies, the lemniscal neurons exhibited amplitude modulations and constant
latencies. In contrast, paralemniscal neurons in both thalamus and cortex coded
the input frequency as changes in latency. Because the onset latencies increased 
and the offset latencies remained constant, the latency increments were
translated into a rate code: increasing onset latencies led to lower spike
counts. A thalamocortical loop that includes cortical oscillations and thalamic
gating can account for these results. Thus, variable latencies and effective
cortical feedback in the paralemniscal system can serve the processing of
temporal sensory cues, such as those that encode object location during whisking.
In contrast, fixed time locking in the lemniscal system is crucial for reliable
spatial processing.

DOI: 10.1038/35018568 
PMID: 10917531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):299-302.

Magnetite defines a vertebrate magnetoreceptor.

Diebel CE(1), Proksch R, Green CR, Neilson P, Walker MM.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Biology Research Group, School of Biological Sciences, University
of Auckland, New Zealand. m.walker@auckland.ac.nz

The key behavioural, physiological and anatomical components of a magnetite-based
magnetic sense have been demonstrated in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss).
Candidate receptor cells located within a discrete sub-layer of the olfactory
lamellae contained iron-rich crystals that were similar in size and shape to
magnetite crystals extracted from salmon. Here we show that these crystals, which
mapped to individual receptors using confocal and atomic force microscopy, are
magnetic, as they are uniquely associated with dipoles detected by magnetic force
microscopy. Analysis of their magnetic properties identifies the crystals as
single-domain magnetite. In addition, three-dimensional reconstruction of the
candidate receptors using confocal and atomic force microscopy imaging confirm
that several magnetic crystals are arranged in a chain of about 1 microm within
the receptor, and that the receptor is a multi-lobed single cell. These results
are consistent with a magnetite-based detection mechanism, as 1-microm chains of 
single-domain magnetite crystals are highly suitable for the behavioural and
physiological responses to magnetic intensity previously reported in the trout.

DOI: 10.1038/35018561 
PMID: 10917530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):296-9.

Female bluethroats enhance offspring immunocompetence through extra-pair
copulations.

Johnsen A(1), Andersen V, Sunding C, Lifjeld JT.

Author information: 
(1)Zoological Museum, University of Oslo, Norway.

Female birds frequently copulate with extra-pair males, but the adaptive value of
this behaviour is poorly understood. Some studies have suggested that 'good
genes' may be involved, where females seek to have their eggs fertilized by
high-quality males without receiving any material benefits from them.
Nevertheless, it remains to be shown that a genetic benefit is passed on to
offspring. Here we report that nestling bluethroats, Luscinia svecica, sired by
extra-pair males had a higher T-cell-mediated immune response than their maternal
half-siblings raised in the same nest. The difference could not be attributed to 
nestling body mass, sex or hatching order, but may be an effect of paternal
genotype. Extra-pair young were also more immunocompetent than their paternal
half-sibs raised in the genetic father's own nest, which indicates an additional 
effect of maternal genotype. Our results are consistent with the idea that
females engage in extra-pair copulations to obtain compatible viability genes,
rather than 'good genes' per se.

DOI: 10.1038/35018556 
PMID: 10917529  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):293-6.

Melting of the Earth's lithospheric mantle inferred from
protactinium-thorium-uranium isotopic data

Asmerom Y(1), Cheng H, Thomas R, Hirschmann M, Edwards RL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, University of New Mexico,
Albuquerque 87131, USA. asmerom@unm.edu

The processes responsible for the generation of partial melt in the Earth's
lithospheric mantle and the movement of this melt to the Earth's surface remain
enigmatic, owing to the perceived difficulties in generating large-degree partial
melts at depth and in transporting small-degree melts through a static
lithosphere. Here we present a method of placing constraints on melting in the
lithospheric mantle using 231Pa-235U data obtained from continental basalts in
the southwestern United States and Mexico. Combined with 230Th-238U data, the
231Pa-235U data allow us to constrain the source mineralogy and thus the depth of
melting of these basalts. Our analysis indicates that it is possible to transport
small melt fractions--of the order of 0.1%--through the lithosphere, as might
result from the coalescence of melt by compaction owing to melting-induced
deformation. The large observed 231Pa excesses require that the timescale of melt
generation and transport within the lithosphere is small compared to the
half-life of 231Pa (approximately 32.7 kyr). The 231Pa-230Th data also constrain 
the thorium and uranium distribution coefficients for clinopyroxene in the source
regions of these basalts to be within 2% of one another, indicating that in this 
setting 230Th excesses are not expected during melting at depths shallower than
85 km.

DOI: 10.1038/35018550 
PMID: 10917528 


447. Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):290-3.

Evidence for a link between global lightning activity and upper tropospheric
water vapour

Price C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geophysics and Planetary Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Ramat
Aviv, Israel. cprice@flash.tau.ac.il

Tropospheric water vapour is a key element of the Earth's climate, which has
direct effects as a greenhouse gas, as well as indirect effects through
interaction with clouds, aerosols and tropospheric chemistry. Small changes in
upper-tropospheric water vapour have a much larger impact on the greenhouse
effect than small changes in water vapour in the lower atmosphere, but whether
this impact is a positive or negative feedback remains uncertain. The main
challenge in addressing this question is the difficulty in monitoring
upper-tropospheric water vapour globally over long timescales. Here I show that
upper-tropospheric water-vapour variability and global lightning activity are
closely linked, suggesting that upper-tropospheric water-vapour changes can be
inferred from records of global lightning activity, readily obtained from
observations at a single location on the Earth's surface. This correlation
reflects the fact that continental deep-convective thunderstorms transport large 
amounts of water vapour into the upper troposphere and thereby dominate the
variations of global upper-tropospheric water vapour while producing most of the 
lightning on Earth. As global lightning induces Schumann resonances, an
electromagnetic phenomenon in the atmosphere that can be observed easily at low
cost, monitoring of these resonances might provide a convenient method for
tracking upper-tropospheric water-vapour variability and hence contribute to a
better understanding of the processes affecting climate change.

DOI: 10.1038/35018543 
PMID: 10917527 


448. Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):287-90.

Optimal shapes of compact strings.

Maritan A(1), Micheletti C, Trovato A, Banavar JR.

Author information: 
(1)International School for Advanced Studies, Istituto Nazionale per la di Fisica
della Materia and the Abdus Salam International Center for Theoretical Physics,
Trieste, Italy.

Optimal geometrical arrangements, such as the stacking of atoms, are of relevance
in diverse disciplines. A classic problem is the determination of the optimal
arrangement of spheres in three dimensions in order to achieve the highest
packing fraction; only recently has it been proved that the answer for infinite
systems is a face-centred-cubic lattice. This simply stated problem has had a
profound impact in many areas, ranging from the crystallization and melting of
atomic systems, to optimal packing of objects and the sub-division of space. Here
we study an analogous problem--that of determining the optimal shapes of closely 
packed compact strings. This problem is a mathematical idealization of situations
commonly encountered in biology, chemistry and physics, involving the optimal
structure of folded polymeric chains. We find that, in cases where boundary
effects are not dominant, helices with a particular pitch-radius ratio are
selected. Interestingly, the same geometry is observed in helices in naturally
occurring proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/35018538 
PMID: 10917526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):282-7.

Imaging the vortex-lattice melting process in the presence of disorder

Soibel A(1), Zeldov E, Rappaport M, Myasoedov Y, Tamegai T, Ooi S, Konczykowski
M, Geshkenbein VB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Condensed Matter Physics, The Weizmann Institute of Sciences,
Rehovot, Israel. hsasha@wisemail.weizmann.ac.il

General arguments suggest that first-order phase transitions become less sharp in
the presence of weak disorder, while extensive disorder can transform them into
second-order transitions; but the atomic level details of this process are not
clear. The vortex lattice in superconductors provides a unique system in which to
study the first-order transition on an inter-particle scale, as well as over a
wide range of particle densities. Here we use a differential magneto-optical
technique to obtain direct experimental visualization of the melting process in a
disordered superconductor. The images reveal complex behaviour in nucleation,
pattern formation, and solid-liquid interface coarsening and pinning. Although
the local melting is found to be first-order, a global rounding of the transition
is observed; this results from a disorder-induced broad distribution of local
melting temperatures, at scales down to the mesoscopic level. We also resolve
local hysteretic supercooling of microscopic liquid domains, a non-equilibrium
process that occurs only at selected sites where the disorder-modified melting
temperature has a local maximum. By revealing the nucleation process, we are able
to experimentally evaluate the solid-liquid surface tension, which we find to be 
extremely small.

DOI: 10.1038/35018532 
PMID: 10917525 


450. Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):280-2.

Non-collinear states in magnetic sensors

Taga A(1), Nordstrom L, James P, Johansson B, Eriksson O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Uppsala, Sweden.

Certain materials have an electrical conductivity that is extremely sensitive to 
an applied magnetic field; this phenomenon, termed 'giant magnetoresistance', can
be used in sensor applications. Typically, such a device comprises several
ferromagnetic layers, separated by non-magnetic spacer layer(s)--a so-called
'super-lattice' geometry. In the absence of a magnetic field, the ferromagnetic
layers may be magnetized in opposite directions by interlayer exchange coupling, 
while an applied external magnetic field causes the magnetization directions to
become parallel. Because the resistivity depends on the magnetization direction, 
an applied field that changes the magnetic configuration may be detected simply
by measuring the change in resistance. In order to detect weak fields, the energy
difference between different magnetization directions should be small; this is
usually achieved by using many non-magnetic atomic spacer layers. Here we show,
using first-principles theory, that materials combinations such as Fe/V/Co
multilayers can produce a non-collinear magnetic state in which the magnetization
direction between Fe and Co layers differs by about 90 degrees. This state is
energetically almost degenerate with the collinear magnetic states, even though
the number of non-magnetic vanadium spacer layers is quite small.

DOI: 10.1038/35018528 
PMID: 10917524 


451. Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):277-9.

Gain-assisted superluminal light propagation

Wang LJ(1), Kuzmich A, Dogariu A.

Author information: 
(1)NEC Research Institute, Princeton, New Jersey 08540, USA.
Lwan@research.nj.nec.com

Einstein's theory of special relativity and the principle of causality imply that
the speed of any moving object cannot exceed that of light in a vacuum (c).
Nevertheless, there exist various proposals for observing faster-than-c
propagation of light pulses, using anomalous dispersion near an absorption line, 
nonlinear and linear gain lines, or tunnelling barriers. However, in all previous
experimental demonstrations, the light pulses experienced either very large
absorption or severe reshaping, resulting in controversies over the
interpretation. Here we use gain-assisted linear anomalous dispersion to
demonstrate superluminal light propagation in atomic caesium gas. The group
velocity of a laser pulse in this region exceeds c and can even become negative, 
while the shape of the pulse is preserved. We measure a group-velocity index of
n(g) = -310(+/- 5); in practice, this means that a light pulse propagating
through the atomic vapour cell appears at the exit side so much earlier than if
it had propagated the same distance in a vacuum that the peak of the pulse
appears to leave the cell before entering it. The observed superluminal light
pulse propagation is not at odds with causality, being a direct consequence of
classical interference between its different frequency components in an anomalous
dispersion region.

DOI: 10.1038/35018520 
PMID: 10917523 


452. Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):275-6.

Determining the ages of comets from the fraction of crystalline dust.

Nuth JA 3rd(1), Hill HG, Kletetschka G.

Author information: 
(1)Astrochemistry Branch, NASA's Goddard Space Flight Centre, Greenbelt, Maryland
20771, USA. u1jan@lepvax.gsfc.nasa.gov

The timescale for the accretion of bodies in the disk surrounding a young star
depends upon a number of assumptions, but there are few observational
constraints. In our own Solar System, measurements of meteoritic components can
provide information about the inner regions of the nebula, but not the outer
parts. Observations of the evolution of more massive protostellar systems (Herbig
Ae/Be stars) imply that significant changes occur in the physical properties of
their dust with time. The simplest explanation is that thermal annealing of the
original, amorphous grains in the hot inner nebula slowly increases the
fractional abundance of crystalline material over time. Crystalline dust is then 
transported outward, where it is incorporated into comets that serve as a
long-term reservoir for dust disks, such as that surrounding Beta Pictoris. Here 
we show that when applied to our own Solar System, this process can explain
observed variations in both the volatile and dusty components of comets, while
also providing a natural indicator of a comet's mean formation age. Studies of
comets with different dust contents can therefore be used to investigate the
timescales of the early Solar System.

DOI: 10.1038/35018516 
PMID: 10917522  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):267-73.

The 3.2-A crystal structure of the human IgG1 Fc fragment-Fc gammaRIII complex.

Sondermann P(1), Huber R, Oosthuizen V, Jacob U.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Biochemie, Martinsried, Germany.
sonderma@biochem.mpg.de

The immune response depends on the binding of opsonized antigens to cellular Fc
receptors and the subsequent initiation of various cellular effector functions of
the immune system. Here we describe the crystal structures of a soluble Fc gamma 
receptor (sFc gammaRIII, CD16), an Fc fragment from human IgG1 (hFc1) and their
complex. In the 1:1 complex the receptor binds to the two halves of the Fc
fragment in contact with residues of the C gamma2 domains and the hinge region.
Upon complex formation the angle between the two sFc gammaRIII domains increases 
significantly and the Fc fragment opens asymmetrically. The high degree of amino 
acid conservation between sFc gammaRIII and other Fc receptors, and similarly
between hFc1 and related immunoglobulins, suggest similar structures and modes of
association. Thus the described structure is a model for immune complex
recognition and helps to explain the vastly differing affinities of other Fc
gammaR-IgG complexes and the Fc epsilonRI alpha-IgE complex.

DOI: 10.1038/35018508 
PMID: 10917521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):259-66.

Structure of the Fc fragment of human IgE bound to its high-affinity receptor Fc 
epsilonRI alpha.

Garman SC(1), Wurzburg BA, Tarchevskaya SS, Kinet JP, Jardetzky TS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Molecular Biology and Cell Biology, Northwestern
University, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA.

The initiation of immunoglobulin-E (IgE)-mediated allergic responses requires the
binding of IgE antibody to its high-affinity receptor, Fc epsilonRI. Crosslinking
of Fc epsilonRI initiates an intracellular signal transduction cascade that
triggers the release of mediators of the allergic response. The interaction of
the crystallizable fragment (Fc) of IgE (IgE-Fc) with Fc epsilonRI is a key
recognition event of this process and involves the extracellular domains of the
Fc epsilonRI alpha-chain. To understand the structural basis for this
interaction, we have solved the crystal structure of the human IgE-Fc-Fc
epsilonRI alpha complex to 3.5-A resolution. The crystal structure reveals that
one receptor binds one dimeric IgE-Fc molecule asymmetrically through
interactions at two sites, each involving one C epsilon3 domain of the IgE-Fc.
The interaction of one receptor with the IgE-Fc blocks the binding of a second
receptor, and features of this interaction are conserved in other members of the 
Fc receptor family. The structure suggests new approaches to inhibiting the
binding of IgE to Fc epsilonRI for the treatment of allergy and asthma.

DOI: 10.1038/35018500 
PMID: 10917520  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):210-5.

Functional link of BRCA1 and ataxia telangiectasia gene product in DNA damage
response.

Li S(1), Ting NS, Zheng L, Chen PL, Ziv Y, Shiloh Y, Lee EY, Lee WH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine/Institute of Biotechnology, University of
Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, 78245, USA.

BRCA1 encodes a familial breast cancer suppressor that has a critical role in
cellular responses to DNA damage. Mouse cells deficient for Brca1 show genetic
instability, defective G2-M checkpoint control and reduced homologous
recombination. BRCA1 also directly interacts with proteins of the DNA repair
machinery and regulates expression of both the p21 and GADD45 genes. However, it 
remains unclear how DNA damage signals are transmitted to modulate the repair
function of BRCA1. Here we show that the BRCA1-associated protein CtIP becomes
hyperphosphorylated and dissociated from BRCA1 upon ionizing radiation. This
phosphorylation event requires the protein kinase (ATM) that is mutated in the
disease ataxia telangiectasia. ATM phosphorylates CtIP at serine residues 664 and
745, and mutation of these sites to alanine abrogates the dissociation of BRCA1
from CtIP, resulting in persistent repression of BRCA1-dependent induction of
GADD45 upon ionizing radiation. We conclude that ATM, by phosphorylating CtIP
upon ionizing radiation, may modulate BRCA1-mediated regulation of the DNA
damage-response GADD45 gene, thus providing a potential link between ATM
deficiency and breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/35018134 
PMID: 10910365  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):207-10.

PML regulates p53 acetylation and premature senescence induced by oncogenic Ras.

Pearson M(1), Carbone R, Sebastiani C, Cioce M, Fagioli M, Saito S, Higashimoto
Y, Appella E, Minucci S, Pandolfi PP, Pelicci PG.

Author information: 
(1)European Institute of Oncology, Department of Experimental Oncology, Milan,
Italy.

The tumour suppressor p53 induces cellular senescence in response to oncogenic
signals. p53 activity is modulated by protein stability and post-translational
modification, including phosphorylation and acetylation. The mechanism of p53
activation by oncogenes remains largely unknown. Here we report that the tumour
suppressor PML regulates the p53 response to oncogenic signals. We found that
oncogenic Ras upregulates PML expression, and overexpression of PML induces
senescence in a p53-dependent manner. p53 is acetylated at lysine 382 upon Ras
expression, an event that is essential for its biological function. Ras induces
re-localization of p53 and the CBP acetyltransferase within the PML nuclear
bodies and induces the formation of a trimeric p53-PML-CBP complex. Lastly,
Ras-induced p53 acetylation, p53-CBP complex stabilization and senescence are
lost in PML-/- fibroblasts. Our data establish a link between PML and p53 and
indicate that integrity of the PML bodies is required for p53 acetylation and
senescence upon oncogene expression.

DOI: 10.1038/35018127 
PMID: 10910364  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):203-7.

A cholesteryl ester transfer protein inhibitor attenuates atherosclerosis in
rabbits.

Okamoto H(1), Yonemori F, Wakitani K, Minowa T, Maeda K, Shinkai H.

Author information: 
(1)Biological/Pharmacological Research Laboratories, Central Pharmaceutical
Research Institute, JT Inc., Takatsuki, Osaka, Japan. ye6h-okmt@asahi-net.or.jp

Cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) is a plasma protein that mediates the
exchange of cholesteryl ester in high-density lipoprotein (HDL) for triglyceride 
in very low density lipoprotein (VLDL). This process decreases the level of
anti-atherogenic HDL cholesterol and increases pro-atherogenic VLDL and low
density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, so CETP is potentially atherogenic. On the
other hand, CETP could also be anti-atherogenic, because it participates in
reverse cholesterol transport (transfer of cholesterol from peripheral cells
through the plasma to the liver). Because the role of CETP in atherosclerosis
remains unclear, we have attempted to develop a potent and specific CETP
inhibitor. Here we describe CETP inhibitors that form a disulphide bond with
CETP, and present one such inhibitor (JTT-705) that increases HDL cholesterol,
decreases non-HDL cholesterol and inhibits the progression of atherosclerosis in 
rabbits. Our findings indicate that CETP may be atherogenic in vivo and that
JTT-705 may be a potential anti-atherogenic drug.

DOI: 10.1038/35018119 
PMID: 10910363  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):199-203.

Genetic ablation of parathyroid glands reveals another source of parathyroid
hormone.

Günther T(1), Chen ZF, Kim J, Priemel M, Rueger JM, Amling M, Moseley JM, Martin 
TJ, Anderson DJ, Karsenty G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

The parathyroid glands are the only known source of circulating parathyroid
hormone (PTH), which initiates an endocrine cascade that regulates serum calcium 
concentration. Glial cells missing2 (Gcm2), a mouse homologue of Drosophila Gcm, 
is the only transcription factor whose expression is restricted to the
parathyroid glands. Here we show that Gcm2-deficient mice lack parathyroid glands
and exhibit a biological hypoparathyroidism, identifying Gcm2 as a master
regulatory gene of parathyroid gland development. Unlike PTH receptor-deficient
mice, however, Gcm2-deficient mice are viable and fertile, and have only a mildly
abnormal bone phenotype. Despite their lack of parathyroid glands, Gcm2-deficient
mice have PTH serum levels identical to those of wild-type mice, as do
parathyroidectomized wild-type animals. Expression and ablation studies
identified the thymus, where Gcm1, another Gcm homologue, is expressed, as the
additional, downregulatable source of PTH. Thus, Gcm2 deletion uncovers an
auxiliary mechanism for the regulation of calcium homeostasis in the absence of
parathyroid glands. We propose that this backup mechanism may be a general
feature of endocrine regulation.

DOI: 10.1038/35018111 
PMID: 10910362  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):195-9.

A one-hit model of cell death in inherited neuronal degenerations.

Clarke G(1), Collins RA, Leavitt BR, Andrews DF, Hayden MR, Lumsden CJ, McInnes
RR.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Developmental Biology, The Research Institute, Hospital for Sick
Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):137, 139.

In genetic disorders associated with premature neuronal death, symptoms may not
appear for years or decades. This delay in clinical onset is often assumed to
reflect the occurrence of age-dependent cumulative damage. For example, it has
been suggested that oxidative stress disrupts metabolism in neurological
degenerative disorders by the cumulative damage of essential macromolecules. A
prediction of the cumulative damage hypothesis is that the probability of cell
death will increase over time. Here we show in contrast that the kinetics of
neuronal death in 12 models of photoreceptor degeneration, hippocampal neurons
undergoing excitotoxic cell death, a mouse model of cerebellar degeneration and
Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases are all exponential and better explained by
mathematical models in which the risk of cell death remains constant or decreases
exponentially with age. These kinetics argue against the cumulative damage
hypothesis; instead, the time of death of any neuron is random. Our findings are 
most simply accommodated by a 'one-hit' biochemical model in which mutation
imposes a mutant steady state on the neuron and a single event randomly initiates
cell death. This model appears to be common to many forms of neurodegeneration
and has implications for therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1038/35018098 
PMID: 10910361  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):192-5.

A sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor regulates cell migration during vertebrate
heart development.

Kupperman E(1), An S, Osborne N, Waldron S, Stainier DY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of California San Francisco,
94143-0448, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):141-2.

Coordinated cell migration is essential in many fundamental biological processes 
including embryonic development, organogenesis, wound healing and the immune
response. During organogenesis, groups of cells are directed to specific
locations within the embryo. Here we show that the zebrafish miles apart (mil)
mutation specifically affects the migration of the heart precursors to the
midline. We found that mutant cells transplanted into a wild-type embryo migrate 
normally and that wild-type cells in a mutant embryo fail to migrate, suggesting 
that mil may be involved in generating an environment permissive for migration.
We isolated mil by positional cloning and show that it encodes a member of the
lysosphingolipid G-protein-coupled receptor family. We also show that
sphingosine-1-phosphate is a ligand for Mil, and that it activates several
downstream signalling events that are not activated by the mutant alleles. These 
data reveal a new role for lysosphingolipids in regulating cell migration during 
vertebrate development and provide the first molecular clues into the fusion of
the bilateral heart primordia during organogenesis of the heart.

DOI: 10.1038/35018092 
PMID: 10910360  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):188-92.

The segment polarity network is a robust developmental module.

von Dassow G(1), Meir E, Munro EM, Odell GM.

Author information: 
(1)University of Washington, Department of Zoology, Seattle 98195-1800, USA.
dassow@u.washington.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):131-2.

All insects possess homologous segments, but segment specification differs
radically among insect orders. In Drosophila, maternal morphogens control the
patterned activation of gap genes, which encode transcriptional regulators that
shape the patterned expression of pair-rule genes. This patterning cascade takes 
place before cellularization. Pair-rule gene products subsequently 'imprint'
segment polarity genes with reiterated patterns, thus defining the primordial
segments. This mechanism must be greatly modified in insect groups in which many 
segments emerge only after cellularization. In beetles and parasitic wasps, for
instance, pair-rule homologues are expressed in patterns consistent with roles
during segmentation, but these patterns emerge within cellular fields. In
contrast, although in locusts pair-rule homologues may not control segmentation, 
some segment polarity genes and their interactions are conserved. Perhaps
segmentation is modular, with each module autonomously expressing a
characteristic intrinsic behaviour in response to transient stimuli. If so,
evolution could rearrange inputs to modules without changing their intrinsic
behaviours. Here we suggest, using computer simulations, that the Drosophila
segment polarity genes constitute such a module, and that this module is
resistant to variations in the kinetic constants that govern its behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/35018085 
PMID: 10910359  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):186-8.

Condition-dependent signalling of genetic variation in stalk-eyed flies.

David P(1), Bjorksten T, Fowler K, Pomiankowski A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University College London, UK.

Handicap models of sexual selection predict that male sexual ornaments have
strong condition-dependent expression and this allows females to evaluate male
genetic quality. A number of previous experiments have demonstrated heightened
condition-dependence of sexual ornaments in response to environmental stress.
Here we show that genetic variation underlies the response to environmental
stress (variable food quality) of a sexual ornament (male eye span) in the
stalk-eyed fly Cyrtodiopsis dalmanni. Some male genotypes develop large eye span 
under all conditions, whereas other genotypes progressively reduce eye span as
conditions deteriorate. Several non-sexual traits (female eye span, male and
female wing length) also show genetic variation in condition-dependent
expression, but their genetic response is entirely explained by scaling with body
size. In contrast, the male sexual ornament still reveals genetic variation in
the response to environmental stress after accounting for differences in body
size. These results strongly support the hypothesis that female mate choice
yields genetic benefits for offspring.

DOI: 10.1038/35018079 
PMID: 10910358  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):183-6.

Competition induces adaptive shifts in caste ratios of a polyembryonic wasp.

Harvey JA(1), Corley LS, Strand MR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 53706, USA.

An important transition in insect life-history evolution was the shift from a
solitary existence to living in groups comprising specialized castes.
Caste-forming species produce some individuals that reproduce and others with
worker functions that have few or no offspring. Morphologically specialized
castes are well known in eusocial species like ants and termites, but castes have
also evolved in less-studied groups like thrips, aphids and polyembryonic wasps. 
Because selection acts at both the individual and the colony level, ratios of
investment in different castes are predicted to vary with environmental factors
like competition and resources. However, experimental evidence for adaptive
shifts in caste ratios is limited owing to the experimental difficulty of
manipulating factors thought to influence caste ratios, and because some species 
produce behaviourally flexible castes that switch tasks in response to colony
needs. Unlike other caste-forming species, the broods of polyembryonic wasps
develop clonally, so that increased production of one caste probably results in
decreased production of the other. Here we show that the polyembryonic wasp
Copidosoma floridanum alters caste ratios in response to interspecific
competition. Our results reveal a distinct trade-off by C. floridanum between
reproduction and defence, and show experimentally that caste ratios shift in an
adaptive manner.

DOI: 10.1038/35018074 
PMID: 10910357  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):181-3.

Cadmium toxicity among wildlife in the Colorado Rocky Mountains.

Larison JR(1), Likens GE, Fitzpatrick JW, Crock JG.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Cornell University, Ithaca, New
York 14853, USA. larisonj@ucs.orst.edu

Cadmium is known to be both extremely toxic and ubiquitous in natural
environments. It occurs in almost all soils, surface waters and plants, and it is
readily mobilized by human activities such as mining. As a result, cadmium has
been named as a potential health threat to wildlife species; however, because it 
exists most commonly in the environment as a trace constituent, reported
incidences of cadmium toxicity are rare. Here we have measured trace metals in
the food web and tissues of white-tailed ptarmigan (Lagopus leucurus) in
Colorado. Our results suggest that cadmium toxicity may be more common among
natural populations of vertebrates than has been appreciated to date and that
cadmium toxicity may often go undetected or unrecognized. In addition, our
research shows that ingestion of even trace quantities of cadmium can influence
not only the physiology and health of individual organisms, but also the
demographics and the distribution of species.

DOI: 10.1038/35018068 
PMID: 10910356  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):178-81.

Determining multiple length scales in rocks

Song YQ(1), Ryu S, Sen PN.

Author information: 
(1)Schlumberger-Doll Research, Ridgefield, Connecticut 06877, USA.
song@ridgefield.sdr.slb.com

Carbonate reservoirs in the Middle East are believed to contain about half of the
world's oil. The processes of sedimentation and diagenesis produce in carbonate
rocks microporous grains and a wide range of pore sizes, resulting in a complex
spatial distribution of pores and pore connectivity. This heterogeneity makes it 
difficult to determine by conventional techniques the characteristic pore-length 
scales, which control fluid transport properties. Here we present a
bulk-measurement technique that is nondestructive and capable of extracting
multiple length scales from carbonate rocks. The technique uses nuclear magnetic 
resonance to exploit the spatially varying magnetic field inside the pore space
itself--a 'fingerprint' of the pore structure. We found three primary length
scales (1-100 microm) in the Middle-East carbonate rocks and determined that the 
pores are well connected and spatially mixed. Such information is critical for
reliably estimating the amount of capillary-bound water in the rock, which is
important for efficient oil production. This method might also be used to
complement other techniques for the study of shaly sand reservoirs and
compartmentalization in cells and tissues.

DOI: 10.1038/35018057 
PMID: 10910355 


466. Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):176-8.

Anomalous 17O compositions in massive sulphate deposits on the Earth

Bao H(1), Thiemens MH, Farquhar J, Campbell DA, Lee CC, Heine K, Loope DB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California San Diego, 
La Jolla 92093, USA. hbao@chem.ucsd.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):136-7.

The variation of delta 18O that results from nearly all physical, biological and 
chemical processes on the Earth is approximately twice as large as the variation 
of delta 17O. This so-called 'mass-dependent' fractionation is well documented in
terrestrial minerals. Evidence for 'mass-independent' fractionation (delta 17O = 
delta 17O-0.52 delta 18O), where deviation from this tight relationship occurs,
has so far been found only in meteoritic material and a few terrestrial
atmospheric substances. In the rock record it is thought that oxygen isotopes
have followed a mass-dependent relationship for at least the past 3.7 billion
years, and no exception to this has been encountered for terrestrial solids.
Here, however, we report oxygen-isotope values of two massive sulphate mineral
deposits, which formed in surface environments on the Earth but show large
isotopic anomalies (delta 17O up to 4.6%). These massive sulphate deposits are
gypcretes from the central Namib Desert and the sulphate-bearing Miocene volcanic
ash-beds in North America. The source of this isotope anomaly might be related to
sulphur oxidation reactions in the atmosphere and therefore enable tracing of
such oxidation. These findings also support the possibility of a chemical origin 
of variable isotope anomalies on other planets, such as Mars.

DOI: 10.1038/35018052 
PMID: 10910354  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):173-6.

Determining the temperature of petroleum formation from the kinetic properties of
petroleum asphaltenes

di Primio R(1), Horsfield B, Guzman-Vega MA.

Author information: 
(1)Saga Petroleum ASA, Sandvika, Norway. rolando.di-primio@hydro.com

Knowledge of the timing and location of petroleum formation is important in
assessing the extent of available reserves in hydrocarbon-forming basins. This
can be predicted from the thermal history of a basin and the kinetic parameters
that characterize the thermal breakdown of kerogen in source rocks. At present,
the kinetic parameters of kerogen breakdown are experimentally determined using
immature rock samples from basin margins, but questions remain about the accuracy
of this approach, especially when significant variability is observed within
individual source units. Here we show that the kinetics of hydrocarbon generation
from petroleum asphaltenes can be used to determine the temperature conditions of
the actual source rock at the time of expulsion of the sampled petroleum. This
relationship reflects the structural similarity of asphaltenes to the parent
kerogen. We expect that our approach may be used as a comparatively simple
alternative method for assessing the petroleum generation characteristics of a
given basin, which will allow for better estimates of the available oil resources
and the risks associated with their exploration.

DOI: 10.1038/35018046 
PMID: 10910353 


468. Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):169-72.

Electronic connection to the interior of a mesoporous insulator with nanowires of
crystalline RuO2

Ryan JV(1), Berry AD, Anderson ML, Long JW, Stroud RM, Cepak VM, Browning VM,
Rolison DR, Merzbacher CI.

Author information: 
(1)Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, DC 20375, USA.

Highly porous materials such as mesoporous oxides are of technological interest
for catalytic, sensing and remediation applications: the mesopores (of size 2-50 
nm) permit ingress by molecules and guests that are physically excluded from
microporous materials. Connecting the interior of porous materials with a
nanoscale or 'molecular' wire would allow the direct electronic control (and
monitoring) of chemical reactions and the creation of nanostructures for
high-density electronic materials. The challenge is to create an electronic
pathway (that is, a wire) within a mesoporous platform without greatly occluding 
its free volume and reactive surface area. Here we report the synthesis of an
electronically conductive mesoporous composite--by the cryogenic decomposition of
RuO4--on the nanoscale network of a partially densified silica aerogel. The
composite consists of a three-dimensional web of interconnected (approximately
4-nm in diameter) crystallites of RuO2, supported conformally on the nanoscopic
silica network. The resulting monolithic (RuO2//SiO2) composite retains the free 
volume of the aerogel and exhibits pure electronic conductivity. In addition to
acting as a wired mesoporous platform, the RuO2-wired silica aerogel behaves as a
porous catalytic electrode for the oxidation of chloride to molecular chlorine.

DOI: 10.1038/35018040 
PMID: 10910352 


469. Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):166-9.

Configurational entropy and diffusivity of supercooled water

Scala A(1), Starr FW, La Nave E, Sciortino F, Stanley HE.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Polymer Studies, Department of Physics, Boston University,
Massachusetts 02215, USA. scala@phys.uniroma1.it

As a liquid approaches the glass transition, its properties are dominated by
local potential minima in its energy landscape. The liquid experiences localized 
vibrations in the basins of attraction surrounding the minima, and rearranges via
relatively infrequent inter-basin jumps. As a result, the liquid dynamics at low 
temperature are related to the system's exploration of its own configuration
space. The 'thermodynamic approach' to the glass transition considers the
reduction in configuration space explored as the system cools, and predicts that 
the configurational entropy (a measure of the number of local potential energy
minima sampled by the liquid) is related to the diffusion constant. Here we
report a stringent test of the thermodynamic approach for liquid water (a
convenient system to study because of an anomalous pressure dependence in the
diffusion constant). We calculate the configurational entropy at points spanning 
a large region of the temperature-density plane, using a model that reproduces
the dynamical anomalies of liquid water. We find that the thermodynamic approach 
can be used to understand the characteristic dynamic anomalies, and that the
diffusive dynamics are governed by the configurational entropy. Our results
indicate that the thermodynamic approach might be extended to predict the
dynamical behaviour of supercooled liquids in general.

DOI: 10.1038/35018034 
PMID: 10910351 


470. Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):164-6.

Shaped-pulse optimization of coherent emission of high-harmonic soft X-rays

Bartels R(1), Backus S, Zeek E, Misoguti L, Vdovin G, Christov IP, Murnane MM,
Kapteyn HC.

Author information: 
(1)JILA and Department of Physics, University of Colorado and National Institute 
of Standards and Technology, Boulder 80309-0440, USA.

When an intense laser pulse is focused into a gas, the light-atom interaction
that occurs as atoms are ionized results in an extremely nonlinear optical
process--the generation of high harmonics of the driving laser frequency.
Harmonics that extend up to orders of about 300 have been reported, some
corresponding to photon energies in excess of 500 eV. Because this technique is
simple to implement and generates coherent, laser-like, soft X-ray beams, it is
currently being developed for applications in science and technology; these
include probing the dynamics in chemical and materials systems and imaging. Here 
we report that by carefully tailoring the shapes of intense light pulses, we can 
control the interaction of light with an atom during ionization, improving the
efficiency of X-ray generation by an order of magnitude. We demonstrate that it
is possible to tune the spectral characteristics of the emitted radiation, and to
steer the interaction between different orders of nonlinear processes.

DOI: 10.1038/35018029 
PMID: 10910350 


471. Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):160-4.

Realignment of the flux-line lattice by a change in the symmetry of
superconductivity in UPt3

Huxley A(1), Rodiere P, Paul DM, van Dijk N, Cubitt R, Flouquet J.

Author information: 
(1)CEA, Departement de Recherche Fondamentale sur la Matiere Condensee, SPSMS,
Grenoble, France. huxley@drfmc.ceng.cea.fr

In 1957, Abrikosov described how quanta of magnetic flux enter the interior of a 
bulk type II superconductor. It was subsequently predicted that, in an isotropic 
superconductor, the repulsive forces between the flux lines would cause them to
order in two dimensions, forming a hexagonal lattice. Flux-line lattices with
different geometry can also be found in conventional (type II) superconductors;
however, the ideal hexagonal lattice structure should always occur when the
magnetic field is applied along a hexagonal crystal direction. Here we report
measurements of the orientation of the flux-line lattice in the heavy-fermion
superconductor UPt3, for this special case. As the temperature is increased, the 
hexagonal lattice, which is initially aligned along the crystal symmetry
directions, realigns itself with the anisotropic superconducting gap. The
superconductivity in UPt3 is unusual (even compared to unconventional oxide
superconductors) because the superconducting gap has a lower rotational symmetry 
than the crystal structure. This special feature enables our data to demonstrate 
clearly the link between the microscopic symmetry of the superconductivity and
the mesoscopic physics of the flux-line lattice. Moreover, our observations
provide a stringent test of the theoretical description of the unconventional
superconductivity in UPt3.

DOI: 10.1038/35018020 
PMID: 10910349 


472. Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):158-60.

A large age for the pulsar B1757-24 from an upper limit on its proper motion

Gaensler BM(1), Frail DA.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Space Research, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge
02139, USA. bmg@space.mit.edu

The 'characteristic age' of a pulsar is usually considered to approximate its
true age, but this assumption has led to some puzzling results, including the
fact that many pulsars with small characteristic ages have no associated
supernova remnants. The pulsar B1757-24 is located just outside the edge of a
supernova remnant; the properties of the system indicate that the pulsar was born
at the centre of the remnant with a substantial velocity, and that it has
subsequently overtaken the expanding blast wave. With a characteristic age of
16,000 yr, the pulsar is expected to have a proper motion of 63-80
milliarcseconds (mas) per year. Here we report observations of the nebula
surrounding the pulsar, which limit its proper motion to less than 25 mas yr(-1),
implying a minimum age of 39,000 yr. A more detailed analysis argues that the
true age may be as great as 170,000 yr, which is significantly larger than the
characteristic age. We conclude from this result and other discrepancies
associated with pulsars that characteristic ages greatly underestimate the true
ages of pulsars.

DOI: 10.1038/35018010 
PMID: 10910348 


473. Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):151-9.

The genome sequence of the plant pathogen Xylella fastidiosa. The Xylella
fastidiosa Consortium of the Organization for Nucleotide Sequencing and Analysis.

Simpson AJ(1), Reinach FC, Arruda P, Abreu FA, Acencio M, Alvarenga R, Alves LM, 
Araya JE, Baia GS, Baptista CS, Barros MH, Bonaccorsi ED, Bordin S, Bové JM,
Briones MR, Bueno MR, Camargo AA, Camargo LE, Carraro DM, Carrer H, Colauto NB,
Colombo C, Costa FF, Costa MC, Costa-Neto CM, Coutinho LL, Cristofani M,
Dias-Neto E, Docena C, El-Dorry H, Facincani AP, Ferreira AJ, Ferreira VC, Ferro 
JA, Fraga JS, França SC, Franco MC, Frohme M, Furlan LR, Garnier M, Goldman GH,
Goldman MH, Gomes SL, Gruber A, Ho PL, Hoheisel JD, Junqueira ML, Kemper EL,
Kitajima JP, Krieger JE, Kuramae EE, Laigret F, Lambais MR, Leite LC, Lemos EG,
Lemos MV, Lopes SA, Lopes CR, Machado JA, Machado MA, Madeira AM, Madeira HM,
Marino CL, Marques MV, Martins EA, Martins EM, Matsukuma AY, Menck CF, Miracca
EC, Miyaki CY, Monteriro-Vitorello CB, Moon DH, Nagai MA, Nascimento AL, Netto
LE, Nhani A Jr, Nobrega FG, Nunes LR, Oliveira MA, de Oliveira MC, de Oliveira
RC, Palmieri DA, Paris A, Peixoto BR, Pereira GA, Pereira HA Jr, Pesquero JB,
Quaggio RB, Roberto PG, Rodrigues V, de M Rosa AJ, de Rosa VE Jr, de Sá RG,
Santelli RV, Sawasaki HE, da Silva AC, da Silva AM, da Silva FR, da Silva WA Jr, 
da Silveira JF, Silvestri ML, Siqueira WJ, de Souza AA, de Souza AP, Terenzi MF, 
Truffi D, Tsai SM, Tsuhako MH, Vallada H, Van Sluys MA, Verjovski-Almeida S,
Vettore AL, Zago MA, Zatz M, Meidanis J, Setubal JC.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Ludwig de Pesquisa sobre o Câncer, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):140-1.
    Nature. 2000 Aug 24;406(6798):826.
    Nature. 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):17.

Xylella fastidiosa is a fastidious, xylem-limited bacterium that causes a range
of economically important plant diseases. Here we report the complete genome
sequence of X. fastidiosa clone 9a5c, which causes citrus variegated chlorosis--a
serious disease of orange trees. The genome comprises a 52.7% GC-rich
2,679,305-base-pair (bp) circular chromosome and two plasmids of 51,158 bp and
1,285 bp. We can assign putative functions to 47% of the 2,904 predicted coding
regions. Efficient metabolic functions are predicted, with sugars as the
principal energy and carbon source, supporting existence in the nutrient-poor
xylem sap. The mechanisms associated with pathogenicity and virulence involve
toxins, antibiotics and ion sequestration systems, as well as bacterium-bacterium
and bacterium-host interactions mediated by a range of proteins. Orthologues of
some of these proteins have only been identified in animal and human pathogens;
their presence in X. fastidiosa indicates that the molecular basis for bacterial 
pathogenicity is both conserved and independent of host. At least 83 genes are
bacteriophage-derived and include virulence-associated genes from other bacteria,
providing direct evidence of phage-mediated horizontal gene transfer.

DOI: 10.1038/35018003 
PMID: 10910347  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Nature. 2000 Jul 13;406(6792):147-50.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation and the human brain.

Hallett M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Human Motor Control Section, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and 
Stroke, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-1428, USA.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is rapidly developing as a powerful,
non-invasive tool for studying the human brain. A pulsed magnetic field creates
current flow in the brain and can temporarily excite or inhibit specific areas.
TMS of motor cortex can produce a muscle twitch or block movement; TMS of
occipital cortex can produce visual phosphenes or scotomas. TMS can also alter
the functioning of the brain beyond the time of stimulation, offering potential
for therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/35018000 
PMID: 10910346  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):101-4.

Structure of the dimerized hormone-binding domain of a guanylyl-cyclase-coupled
receptor.

van den Akker F(1), Zhang X, Miyagi M, Huo X, Misono KS, Yee VC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic
Foundation, Ohio 44195, USA.

The atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) hormone is secreted by the heart in response
to an increase in blood pressure. ANP exhibits several potent anti-hypertensive
actions in the kidney, adrenal gland and vascular system. These actions are
induced by hormone binding extracellularly to the ANP receptor, thereby
activating its intracellular guanylyl cyclase domain for the production of cyclic
GMP. Here we present the crystal structure of the glycosylated dimerized
hormone-binding domain of the ANP receptor at 2.0-A resolution. The monomer
comprises two interconnected subdomains, each encompassing a central beta-sheet
flanked by alpha-helices, and exhibits the type I periplasmic binding protein
fold. Dimerization is mediated by the juxtaposition of four parallel helices,
arranged two by two, which brings the two protruding carboxy termini into close
relative proximity. From affinity labelling and mutagenesis studies, the
ANP-binding site maps to the side of the dimer crevice and extends to near the
dimer interface. A conserved chloride-binding site is located in the membrane
distal domain, and we found that hormone binding is chloride dependent. These
studies suggest mechanisms for hormone activation and the allostery of the ANP
receptor.

DOI: 10.1038/35017602 
PMID: 10894551  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):98-101.

Elevated UV-B radiation reduces genome stability in plants.

Ries G(1), Heller W, Puchta H, Sandermann H, Seidlitz HK, Hohn B.

Author information: 
(1)Friedrich Miescher-Institut, Basel, Switzerland. ries@fmi.ch

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):30-1.

Long-term depletion of the stratospheric ozone layer contributes to an increase
in terrestrial solar ultraviolet-B radiation. This has deleterious effects on
living organisms, such as DNA damage. When exposed to elevated ultraviolet-B
radiation (UV-B; 280-315 nm), plants display a wide variety of physiological and 
morphological responses characterized as acclimation and adaptation. Here we
show, using special sun simulators, that elevated solar UV-B doses increase the
frequency of somatic homologous DNA rearrangements in Arabidopsis and tobacco
plants. Increases in recombination are accompanied by a strong induction of
photolyase and Rad51 gene expression. These genes are putatively involved in
major DNA repair pathways, photoreactivation and recombination repair. In mutant 
Arabidopsis plants that are deficient in photoreactivating ultraviolet-induced
cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers, recombination under elevated UV-B regimes greatly 
exceeds wild-type levels. Our results show that homologous recombination repair
pathways might be involved in eliminating UV-B-induced DNA lesions in plants.
Thus, increases in terrestrial solar UV-B radiation as forecasted for the early
21st century may affect genome stability in plants.

DOI: 10.1038/35017595 
PMID: 10894550  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):94-8.

Forkhead-like transcription factors recruit Ndd1 to the chromatin of
G2/M-specific promoters.

Koranda M(1), Schleiffer A, Endler L, Ammerer G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Cell Biology, Ludwig Boltzmann
Forschungsstelle, University of Vienna, Austria.

Many cell-cycle-specific events are supported by stage-specific gene expression. 
In budding yeast, at least three different nuclear factors seem to cooperate in
the periodic activation of G2/M-specific genes. Here we show, by using chromatin 
immunoprecipitation polymerase chain reaction assays, that a positive regulator, 
Ndd1, becomes associated with G2/M promoter regions in manner that depends on the
stage in cell cycle. Its recruitment depends on a permanent protein-DNA complex
consisting of the MADS box protein, Mcm1, and a recently identified partner Fkh2,
a forkhead/winged helix related transcription factor. The lethality of Ndd1
depletion is suppressed by fkh2 null mutations, which indicates that Fkh2 may
also have a negative regulatory role in the transcription of G2/M-induced RNAs.
We conclude that Ndd1-Fkh2 interactions may be the transcriptionally important
process targeted by Cdk activity.

DOI: 10.1038/35017589 
PMID: 10894549  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):90-4.

Two yeast forkhead genes regulate the cell cycle and pseudohyphal growth.

Zhu G(1), Spellman PT, Volpe T, Brown PO, Botstein D, Davis TN, Futcher B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle 98195-7350, USA.

There are about 800 genes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae whose transcription is
cell-cycle regulated. Some of these form clusters of co-regulated genes. The
'CLB2' cluster contains 33 genes whose transcription peaks early in mitosis,
including CLB1, CLB2, SWI5, ACE2, CDC5, CDC20 and other genes important for
mitosis. Here we find that the genes in this cluster lose their cell cycle
regulation in a mutant that lacks two forkhead transcription factors, Fkh1 and
Fkh2. Fkh2 protein is associated with the promoters of CLB2, SWI5 and other genes
of the cluster. These results indicate that Fkh proteins are transcription
factors for the CLB2 cluster. The fkh1 fkh2 mutant also displays aberrant
regulation of the 'SIC1' cluster, whose member genes are expressed in the M-G1
interval and are involved in mitotic exit. This aberrant regulation may be due to
aberrant expression of the transcription factors Swi5 and Ace2, which are members
of the CLB2 cluster and controllers of the SIC1 cluster. Thus, a cascade of
transcription factors operates late in the cell cycle. Finally, the fkh1 fkh2
mutant displays a constitutive pseudohyphal morphology, indicating that Fkh1 and 
Fkh2 may help control the switch to this mode of growth.

DOI: 10.1038/35017581 
PMID: 10894548  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):86-90.

Requirement for glycogen synthase kinase-3beta in cell survival and NF-kappaB
activation.

Hoeflich KP(1), Luo J, Rubie EA, Tsao MS, Jin O, Woodgett JR.

Author information: 
(1)Ontario Cancer Institute/Princess Margaret Hospital, Toronto, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):26-7, 29.

Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3)-alpha and -beta are closely related
protein-serine kinases, which act as inhibitory components of Wnt signalling
during embryonic development and cell proliferation in adult tissues. Insight
into the physiological function of GSK-3 has emerged from genetic analysis in
Drosophila, Dictyostelium and yeast. Here we show that disruption of the murine
GSK-3beta gene results in embryonic lethality caused by severe liver degeneration
during mid-gestation, a phenotype consistent with excessive tumour necrosis
factor (TNF) toxicity, as observed in mice lacking genes involved in the
activation of the transcription factor activation NF-kappaB. GSK-3beta-deficient 
embryos were rescued by inhibition of TNF using an anti-TNF-alpha antibody.
Fibroblasts from GSK-3beta-deficient embryos were hypersensitive to TNF-alpha and
showed reduced NF-kappaB function. Lithium treatment (which inhibits GSK-3; refs 
8, 9) sensitized wild-type fibroblasts to TNF and inhibited transactivation of
NF-kappaB. The early steps leading to NF-kappaB activation (degradation of
I-kappaB and translocation of NF-kappaB to the nucleus) were unaffected by the
loss of GSK-3beta, indicating that NF-kappaB is regulated by GSK-3beta at the
level of the transcriptional complex. Thus, GSK-3beta facilitates NF-kappaB
function.

DOI: 10.1038/35017574 
PMID: 10894547  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):82-6.

Therapeutic haemoglobin synthesis in beta-thalassaemic mice expressing
lentivirus-encoded human beta-globin.

May C(1), Rivella S, Callegari J, Heller G, Gaensler KM, Luzzatto L, Sadelain M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Genetics, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New
York, New York 10021, USA.

The stable introduction of a functional beta-globin gene in haematopoietic stem
cells could be a powerful approach to treat beta-thalassaemia and sickle-cell
disease. Genetic approaches aiming to increase normal beta-globin expression in
the progeny of autologous haematopoietic stem cells might circumvent the
limitations and risks of allogeneic cell transplants. However, low-level
expression, position effects and transcriptional silencing hampered the
effectiveness of viral transduction of the human beta-globin gene when it was
linked to minimal regulatory sequences. Here we show that the use of recombinant 
lentiviruses enables efficient transfer and faithful integration of the human
beta-globin gene together with large segments of its locus control region. In
long-term recipients of unselected transduced bone marrow cells, tetramers of two
murine alpha-globin and two human betaA-globin molecules account for up to 13% of
total haemoglobin in mature red cells of normal mice. In beta-thalassaemic
heterozygous mice higher percentages are obtained (17% to 24%), which are
sufficient to ameliorate anaemia and red cell morphology. Such levels should be
of therapeutic benefit in patients with severe defects in haemoglobin production.

DOI: 10.1038/35017565 
PMID: 10894546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


481. Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):78-81.

Point mutation in an AMPA receptor gene rescues lethality in mice deficient in
the RNA-editing enzyme ADAR2.

Higuchi M(1), Maas S, Single FN, Hartner J, Rozov A, Burnashev N, Feldmeyer D,
Sprengel R, Seeburg PH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Neurobiology, Max-Planck Institute for Medical
Research, Heidelberg, Germany.

RNA editing by site-selective deamination of adenosine to inosine alters codons
and splicing in nuclear transcripts, and therefore protein function. ADAR2 (refs 
7, 8) is a candidate mammalian editing enzyme that is widely expressed in brain
and other tissues, but its RNA substrates are unknown. Here we have studied
ADAR2-mediated RNA editing by generating mice that are homozygous for a targeted 
functional null allele. Editing in ADAR2-/- mice was substantially reduced at
most of 25 positions in diverse transcripts; the mutant mice became prone to
seizures and died young. The impaired phenotype appeared to result entirely from 
a single underedited position, as it reverted to normal when both alleles for the
underedited transcript were substituted with alleles encoding the edited version 
exonically. The critical position specifies an ion channel determinant, the Q/R
site, in AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate) receptor
GluR-B pre-messenger RNA. We conclude that this transcript is the physiologically
most important substrate of ADAR2.

DOI: 10.1038/35017558 
PMID: 10894545  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):74-8.

Initiation of neural induction by FGF signalling before gastrulation.

Streit A(1), Berliner AJ, Papanayotou C, Sirulnik A, Stern CD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Development, Columbia University, New York, New
York 10032, USA.

During neural induction, the 'organizer' of the vertebrate embryo instructs
neighbouring ectodermal cells to become nervous system rather than epidermis.
This process is generally thought to occur around the mid-gastrula stage of
embryogenesis. Here we report the isolation of ERNI, an early response gene to
signals from the organizer (Hensen's node). Using ERNI as a marker, we present
evidence that neural induction begins before gastrulation--much earlier in
development than previously thought. We show that the organizer and some of its
precursor cells produce a fibroblast growth factor signal, which can initiate,
and is required for, neural induction.

DOI: 10.1038/35017617 
PMID: 10894544  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):70-4.

Identification of receptors for neuromedin U and its role in feeding.

Howard AD(1), Wang R, Pong SS, Mellin TN, Strack A, Guan XM, Zeng Z, Williams DL 
Jr, Feighner SD, Nunes CN, Murphy B, Stair JN, Yu H, Jiang Q, Clements MK, Tan
CP, McKee KK, Hreniuk DL, McDonald TP, Lynch KR, Evans JF, Austin CP, Caskey CT, 
Van der Ploeg LH, Liu Q.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Metabolic Disorders, Merck Research Laboratories, Rahway, New
Jersey 07065, USA.

Neuromedin U (NMU) is a neuropeptide with potent activity on smooth muscle which 
was isolated first from porcine spinal cord and later from other species. It is
widely distributed in the gut and central nervous system. Peripheral activities
of NMU include stimulation of smooth muscle, increase of blood pressure,
alteration of ion transport in the gut, control of local blood flow and
regulation of adrenocortical function. An NMU receptor has not been molecularly
identified. Here we show that the previously described orphan G-protein-coupled
receptor FM-3 (ref. 15) and a newly discovered one (FM-4) are cognate receptors
for NMU. FM-3, designated NMU1R, is abundantly expressed in peripheral tissues
whereas FM-4, designated NMU2R, is expressed in specific regions of the brain.
NMU is expressed in the ventromedial hypothalamus in the rat brain, and its level
is significantly reduced following fasting. Intracerebroventricular
administration of NMU markedly suppresses food intake in rats. These findings
provide a molecular basis for the biochemical activities of NMU and may indicate 
that NMU is involved in the central control of feeding.

DOI: 10.1038/35017610 
PMID: 10894543  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):67-70.

Negative genetic correlation between male sexual attractiveness and survival.

Brooks R(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Tropical Biology, James Cook University, Townsville, Queensland,
Australia. rob.brooks@jcu.edu.au

Indirect selection of female mating preferences may result from a genetic
association between male attractiveness and offspring fitness. The offspring of
attractive males may have enhanced growth, fecundity, viability or
attractiveness. However, the extent to which attractive males bear genes that
reduce other fitness components has remained unexplored. Here I show that sexual 
attractiveness in male guppies (Poecilia reticulata) is heritable and genetically
correlated with ornamentation. Like ornamentation, attractiveness may be
substantially Y-linked. The benefit of mating with attractive males, and thus
having attractive sons, is opposed by strong negative genetic correlation between
attractiveness and both offspring survival and the number of sons maturing. Such 
correlations suggest either antagonistic pleiotropy between attractiveness and
survival or linkage disequilibrium between attractive and deleterious alleles.
The presence of many colour pattern genes on or near the non-recombining section 
of the Y chromosome may facilitate the accumulation of deleterious mutations by
genetic hitchhiking. These findings show that genes enhancing sexual
attractiveness may be associated with pleiotropic costs or heavy mutational
loads.

DOI: 10.1038/35017552 
PMID: 10894542  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):64-7.

Parallel evolution of virulence in pathogenic Escherichia coli.

Reid SD(1), Herbelin CJ, Bumbaugh AC, Selander RK, Whittam TS.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Evolutionary Genetics, Pennsylvania State University,
University Park 16802, USA.

The mechanisms underlying the evolution and emergence of new bacterial pathogens 
are not well understood. To elucidate the evolution of pathogenic Escherichia
coli strains, here we sequenced seven housekeeping genes to build a phylogenetic 
tree and trace the history of the acquisition of virulence genes. Compatibility
analysis indicates that more than 70% of the informative sites agree with a
single phylogeny, suggesting that recombination has not completely obscured the
remnants of ancestral chromosomes. On the basis of the rate of synonymous
substitution for E. coli and Salmonella enterica (4.7 x 10(-9) per site per
year), the radiation of clones began about 9 million years ago and the highly
virulent pathogen responsible for epidemics of food poisoning, E. coli O157:H7,
separated from a common ancestor of E. coli K-12 as long as 4.5 million years
ago. Phylogenetic analysis reveals that old lineages of E. coli have acquired the
same virulence factors in parallel, including a pathogenicity island involved in 
intestinal adhesion, a plasmid-borne haemolysin, and phage-encoded Shiga toxins. 
Such parallel evolution indicates that natural selection has favoured an ordered 
acquisition of genes and the progressive build-up of molecular mechanisms that
increase virulence.

DOI: 10.1038/35017546 
PMID: 10894541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):62-3.

Valuation of consumption and sale of forest goods from a Central American rain
forest

Godoy R(1), Wilkie D, Overman H, Cubas A, Cubas G, Demmer J, McSweeney K, Brokaw 
N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, Brandeis University, Waltham, Massachusetts 02254,
USA. leandra@sprintmail.com

Researchers recognize that society needs accurate and comprehensive estimates of 
the economic value of rain forests to assess conservation and management options.
Valuation of forests can help us to decide whether to implement policies that
reconcile the value different groups attach to forests. Here we have measured the
value of the rain forest to local populations by monitoring the foods,
construction and craft materials, and medicines consumed or sold from the forest 
by 32 Indian households in two villages in Honduras over 2.5 years. We have
directly measured the detailed, comprehensive consumption patterns of rain forest
products by an indigenous population and the value of that consumption in local
markets. The combined value of consumption and sale of forest goods ranged from
US$17.79 to US$23.72 per hectare per year, at the lower end of previous estimates
(between US$49 and US$1,089 (mean US$347) per hectare per year). Although
outsiders value the rain forest for its high-use and non-use values, local people
receive a small share of the total value. Unless rural people are paid for the
non-local values of rain forests, they may be easily persuaded to deforest.

DOI: 10.1038/35017647 
PMID: 10894540 


487. Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):59-61.

The formation of plagioclase chains during convective transfer in basaltic magma

Philpotts AR(1), Dickson LD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, University of Connecticut, Storrs 06269,
USA. philpotts@geol.uconn.edu

The basaltic rock in the lower part of the thick Holyoke lava flow in Connecticut
and Massachusetts has been shown to have a remarkable texture, with crystals of
feldspar linked together in a continuous three-dimensional network of chains.
Heating experiments have revealed that this network persists to temperatures
where the rock is 75% liquid, and therefore the network was interpreted to have
formed at an early stage of crystallization and to have played an important role 
in the compaction of crystal mush in the lower part of the flow. Despite the
texture's importance to our understanding of how such basalt flows form, the
origin of the texture has remained uncertain. Here we show that, although the
network is present in the lower third of the flow, it was actually formed in the 
upper solidification front and was transported down in plumes of dense crystal
mush. Convection of this type has been postulated for intrusive magma chambers,
but corroborative field evidence has been equivocal, especially in lava lakes and
flows. Preservation of the roof-generated texture in the lower part of a thick
flood-basalt flow therefore constitutes important evidence for the role of
convection in the solidification and differentiation of a simple magma sheet.

DOI: 10.1038/35017542 
PMID: 10894539 


488. Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):56-9.

The sedimentary structure of linear sand dunes

Bristow CS(1), Bailey SD, Lancaster N.

Author information: 
(1)School of Earth Sciences, Birkbeck College, University of London, UK.
c.bristow@bbk.ac.uk

Linear sand dunes--dunes that extend parallel to each other rather than in
star-like or crescentic forms--are the most abundant type of desert sand dune.
But because their development and their internal structure are poorly understood,
they are rarely recognized in the rock record. Models of linear dune development 
have not been able to take into account the sub-surface structure of existing
dunes, but have relied instead either on the extrapolation of short-term
measurements of winds and sediment transport or on observations of near-surface
internal sedimentary structures. From such studies, it has not been clear if
linear dunes can migrate laterally. Here we present images produced by ground
penetrating radar showing the three-dimensional sedimentary structure of a linear
dune in the Namib sand sea, where some of the world's largest linear dunes are
situated. These profiles show clear evidence for lateral migration in a linear
dune. Moreover, the migration of a sinuous crest-line along the dune produces
divergent sets of cross-stratification, which can become stacked as the dune
height increases, and large linear dunes can support superimposed dunes that
produce stacked sets of trough cross-stratification. These clear structural
signatures of linear dunes should facilitate their recognition in geological
records.

DOI: 10.1038/35017536 
PMID: 10894538 


489. Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):54-6.

Phosphate concentrations in lakes.

Hudson JJ(1), Taylor WD, Schindler DW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada.
hudsonje@ene.gov.on.ca

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):31, 33.

Phosphate is an important nutrient that restricts microbial production in many
freshwater and marine environments. The actual concentration of phosphate in
phosphorus-limited waters is largely unknown because commonly used chemical and
radiochemical techniques overestimate the concentration. Here, using a new
steady-state radiobioassay to survey a diverse set of lakes, we report phosphate 
concentrations in lakes that are orders of magnitude lower than estimates made
spectrophotometrically or with the frequently used Rigler radiobioassay. Our
results, combined with those from the literature, indicate that microbes can
achieve rapid turnover rates at picomolar nutrient concentrations. This occurs
even though these concentrations are about two orders of magnitude below the
level where phosphate uptake is estimated to be half the saturation level for the
pico-plankton community. Also, while phosphate concentration increased with the
concentration of total phosphorus and soluble reactive phosphorus in the lakes we
sampled, the proportion of phosphate in the total phosphorus pool decreased from 
oligotrophic to eutrophic lakes. Such information, as revealed by the phosphate
assay that we use here, should allow us to address hypotheses concerning the
concentration of phosphate available to planktonic microorganisms in aquatic
systems.

DOI: 10.1038/35017531 
PMID: 10894537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):51-3.

Direct measurement of hole transport dynamics in DNA.

Lewis FD(1), Liu X, Liu J, Miller SE, Hayes RT, Wasielewski MR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois
60208-3113, USA. lewis@chem.nwu.edu

Our understanding of oxidative damage to double helical DNA and the design of
DNA-based devices for molecular electronics is crucially dependent upon
elucidation of the mechanism and dynamics of electron and hole transport in DNA. 
Electrons and holes can migrate from the locus of formation to trap sites, and
such migration can occur through either a single-step "superexchange" mechanism
or a multistep charge transport "hopping" mechanism. The rates of single-step
charge separation and charge recombination processes are found to decrease
rapidly with increasing transfer distances, whereas multistep hole transport
processes are only weakly distance dependent. However, the dynamics of hole
transport has not yet been directly determined. Here we report spectroscopic
measurements of photoinduced electron transfer in synthetic DNA that yield rate
constants of approximately 5 x 10(7) s(-1) and 5 x 10(6) s(-1), respectively, for
the forward and return hole transport from a single guanine base to a double
guanine base step across a single adenine. These rates are faster than processes 
leading to strand cleavage, such as the reaction of guanine cation radical with
water, thus permitting holes to migrate over long distances in DNA. However, they
are too slow to compete with charge recombination in contact ion pairs, a process
which protects DNA from photochemical damage.

DOI: 10.1038/35017524 
PMID: 10894536  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):48-51.

Self-directed growth of molecular nanostructures on silicon

Lopinski GP(1), Wayner DD, Wolkow RA.

Author information: 
(1)Steacie Institute for Molecular Sciences, National Research Council, Ottawa,
Ontario, Canada.

Advances in techniques for the nanoscale manipulation of matter are important for
the realization of molecule-based miniature devices with new or advanced
functions. A particularly promising approach involves the construction of hybrid 
organic-molecule/silicon devices. But challenges remain--both in the formation of
nanostructures that will constitute the active parts of future devices, and in
the construction of commensurately small connecting wires. Atom-by-atom crafting 
of structures with scanning tunnelling microscopes, although essential to
fundamental advances, is too slow for any practical fabrication process;
self-assembly approaches may permit rapid fabrication, but lack the ability to
control growth location and shape. Furthermore, molecular diffusion on silicon is
greatly inhibited, thereby presenting a problem for self-assembly techniques.
Here we report an approach for fabricating nanoscale organic structures on
silicon surfaces, employing minimal intervention by the tip of a scanning
tunnelling microscope and a spontaneous self-directed chemical growth process. We
demonstrate growth of straight molecular styrene lines--each composed of many
organic molecules--and the crystalline silicon substrate determines both the
orientation of the lines and the molecular spacing within these lines. This
process should, in principle, allow parallel fabrication of identical complex
functional structures.

DOI: 10.1038/35017519 
PMID: 10894535 


492. Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):46-8.

Generation and detection of phase-coherent current-driven magnons in magnetic
multilayers

Tsoi M(1), Jansen AG, Bass J, Chiang WC, Tsoi V V, Wyder P.

Author information: 
(1)Grenoble High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Max-Planck-Institut fur
Festkorperforschung and Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, France.
tsoim@labs.polycnrs-gre.fr

The magnetic state of a ferromagnet can affect the electrical transport
properties of the material; for example, the relative orientation of the magnetic
moments in magnetic multilayers underlies the phenomenon of giant
magnetoresistance. The inverse effect--in which a large electrical current
density can perturb the magnetic state of a multilayer--has been predicted and
observed experimentally with point contacts and lithographically patterned
samples. Some of these observations were taken as indirect evidence for
current-induced excitation of spin waves, or 'magnons'. Here we probe directly
the high-frequency behaviour and partial phase coherence of such current-induced 
excitations, by externally irradiating a point contact with microwaves. We
determine the magnon spectrum and investigate how the magnon frequency and
amplitude vary with the exciting current. Our observations support the
feasibility of a spin-wave maser' or 'SWASER' (spin-wave amplification by
stimulated emission of radiation).

DOI: 10.1038/35017512 
PMID: 10894534 


493. Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):43-6.

Quantum superposition of distinct macroscopic states

Friedman JR(1), Patel V V, Chen W, Tolpygo SK, Lukens JE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, The State University of New York, Stony
Brook 11794-3800, USA. jonathan.friedman@sunysb.edu

In 1935, Schrodinger attempted to demonstrate the limitations of quantum
mechanics using a thought experiment in which a cat is put in a quantum
superposition of alive and dead states. The idea remained an academic curiosity
until the 1980s when it was proposed that, under suitable conditions, a
macroscopic object with many microscopic degrees of freedom could behave quantum 
mechanically, provided that it was sufficiently decoupled from its environment.
Although much progress has been made in demonstrating the macroscopic quantum
behaviour of various systems such as superconductors, nanoscale magnets,
laser-cooled trapped ions, photons in a microwave cavity and C60 molecules, there
has been no experimental demonstration of a quantum superposition of truly
macroscopically distinct states. Here we present experimental evidence that a
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) can be put into a
superposition of two magnetic-flux states: one corresponding to a few
microamperes of current flowing clockwise, the other corresponding to the same
amount of current flowing anticlockwise.

DOI: 10.1038/35017505 
PMID: 10894533 


494. Nature. 2000 Jul 6;406(6791):39-42.

Inspiration for optimization from social insect behaviour.

Bonabeau E(1), Dorigo M, Theraulaz G.

Author information: 
(1)Santa Fe Institute, New Mexico 87501, USA. eric.bonabeau@eurobios.com

Research in social insect behaviour has provided computer scientists with
powerful methods for designing distributed control and optimization algorithms.
These techniques are being applied successfully to a variety of scientific and
engineering problems. In addition to achieving good performance on a wide
spectrum of 'static' problems, such techniques tend to exhibit a high degree of
flexibility and robustness in a dynamic environment.

DOI: 10.1038/35017500 
PMID: 10894532  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1077-9.

Solid-state NMR determination of the secondary structure of Samia cynthia ricini 
silk.

van Beek JD(1), Beaulieu L, Schäfer H, Demura M, Asakura T, Meier BH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Physical Chemistry, ETH Zürich, Switzerland.

Silks are fibrous proteins that form heterogeneous, semi-crystalline solids. Silk
proteins have a variety of physical properties reflecting their range of
functions. Spider dragline silk, for example, has high tensile strength and
elasticity, whereas other silks are better suited to making housing, egg sacs or 
the capture spiral of spiders' webs. The differing physical properties arise from
variation in the protein's primary and secondary structure, and their packing in 
the solid phase. The high mechanical performance of spider dragline silk, for
example, is probably due to a beta-sheet conformation of poly-alanine domains,
embedded as small crystallites within the fibre. Only limited structural
information can be obtained from diffraction of silks, so further
characterization requires spectroscopic studies such as NMR. However, the
classical approach to NMR structure determination fails because the high
molecular weight, repetitive primary structure and structural heterogeneity of
solid silk means that signals from individual amino-acid residues cannot be
resolved. Here we adapt a recently developed solid-state NMR technique to
determine torsion angle pairs (phi, psi) in the protein backbone, and we study
the distribution of conformations in silk from the Eri silkworm, Samia cynthia
ricini. Although the most probable conformation in native fibres is an
anti-parallel beta-sheet, film produced from liquid directly extracted from the
silk glands appears to be primarily alpha-helical.

DOI: 10.1038/35016625 
PMID: 10890452  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1073-7.

Crystal structure of enteropathogenic Escherichia coli intimin-receptor complex.

Luo Y(1), Frey EA, Pfuetzner RA, Creagh AL, Knoechel DG, Haynes CA, Finlay BB,
Strynadka NC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

Intimin and its translocated intimin receptor (Tir) are bacterial proteins that
mediate adhesion between mammalian cells and attaching and effacing (A/E)
pathogens. Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) causes significant paediatric
morbidity and mortality world-wide. A related A/E pathogen, enterohaemorrhagic E.
coli (EHEC; O157:H7) is one of the most important food-borne pathogens in North
America, Europe and Japan. A unique and essential feature of A/E bacterial
pathogens is the formation of actin-rich pedestals beneath the intimately
adherent bacteria and localized destruction of the intestinal brush border. The
bacterial outer membrane adhesin, intimin, is necessary for the production of the
A/E lesion and diarrhoea. The A/E bacteria translocate their own receptor for
intimin, Tir, into the membrane of mammalian cells using the type III secretion
system. The translocated Tir triggers additional host signalling events and actin
nucleation, which are essential for lesion formation. Here we describe the the
crystal structures of an EPEC intimin carboxy-terminal fragment alone and in
complex with the EPEC Tir intimin-binding domain, giving insight into the
molecular mechanisms of adhesion of A/E pathogens.

DOI: 10.1038/35016618 
PMID: 10890451  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1069-73.

Gigantism in mice lacking suppressor of cytokine signalling-2.

Metcalf D(1), Greenhalgh CJ, Viney E, Willson TA, Starr R, Nicola NA, Hilton DJ, 
Alexander WS.

Author information: 
(1)The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research and The Cooperative
Research Centre for Cellular Growth Factors, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Victoria, 
Australia.

Suppressor of cytokine signalling-2 (SOCS-2) is a member of the suppressor of
cytokine signalling family, a group of related proteins implicated in the
negative regulation of cytokine action through inhibition of the Janus kinase
(JAK) signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT)
signal-transduction pathway. Here we use mice unable to express SOCS-2 to examine
its function in vivo. SOCS-2(-/-) mice grew significantly larger than their
wild-type littermates. Increased body weight became evident after weaning and was
associated with significantly increased long bone lengths and the proportionate
enlargement of most organs. Characteristics of deregulated growth hormone and
insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) signalling, including decreased production
of major urinary protein, increased local IGF-I production, and collagen
accumulation in the dermis, were observed in SOCS-2-deficient mice, indicating
that SOCS-2 may have an essential negative regulatory role in the growth
hormone/IGF-I pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/35016611 
PMID: 10890450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1066-9.

Production of gene-targeted sheep by nuclear transfer from cultured somatic
cells.

McCreath KJ(1), Howcroft J, Campbell KH, Colman A, Schnieke AE, Kind AJ.

Author information: 
(1)PPL Therapeutics Ltd, Roslin, Edinburgh, UK.

Erratum in
    Nature 2000 Nov 2;408(6808):120.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1004-5.

It is over a decade since the first demonstration that mouse embryonic stem cells
could be used to transfer a predetermined genetic modification to a whole animal.
The extension of this technique to other mammalian species, particularly
livestock, might bring numerous biomedical benefits, for example, ablation of
xenoreactive transplantation antigens, inactivation of genes responsible for
neuropathogenic disease and precise placement of transgenes designed to produce
proteins for human therapy. Gene targeting has not yet been achieved in mammals
other than mice, however, because functional embryonic stem cells have not been
derived. Nuclear transfer from cultured somatic cells provides an alternative
means of cell-mediated transgenesis. Here we describe efficient and reproducible 
gene targeting in fetal fibroblasts to place a therapeutic transgene at the ovine
alpha1(I) procollagen (COL1A1) locus and the production of live sheep by nuclear 
transfer.

DOI: 10.1038/35016604 
PMID: 10890449  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1062-5.

Postsynaptic translation affects the efficacy and morphology of neuromuscular
junctions.

Sigrist SJ(1), Thiel PR, Reiff DF, Lachance PE, Lasko P, Schuster CM.

Author information: 
(1)Friedrich-Miescher-Laboratorium der Max-Planck-Gesellschaft, Tübingen,
Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1011-2.

Long-term synaptic plasticity may be associated with structural rearrangements
within the neuronal circuitry. Although the molecular mechanisms governing such
activity-controlled morphological alterations are mostly elusive, polysomal
accumulations at the base of developing dendritic spines and the activity-induced
synthesis of synaptic components suggest that localized translation is involved
during synaptic plasticity. Here we show that large aggregates of translational
components as well as messenger RNA of the postsynaptic glutamate receptor
subunit DGluR-IIA are localized within subsynaptic compartments of larval
neuromuscular junctions of Drosophila melanogaster. Genetic models of junctional 
plasticity and genetic manipulations using the translation initiation factors
eIF4E and poly(A)-binding protein showed an increased occurrence of subsynaptic
translation aggregates. This was associated with a significant increase in the
postsynaptic DGluR-IIA protein levels and a reduction in the junctional
expression of the cell-adhesion molecule Fasciclin II. In addition, the efficacy 
of junctional neurotransmission and the size of larval neuromuscular junctions
were significantly increased. Our results therefore provide evidence for a
postsynaptic translational control of long-term junctional plasticity.

DOI: 10.1038/35016598 
PMID: 10890448  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1058-62.

The temporal response of the brain after eating revealed by functional MRI.

Liu Y(1), Gao JH, Liu HL, Fox PT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Brain Institute, University of Florida,
Gainesville 32610, USA. yijunliu@ufl.edu

After eating, the human brain senses a biochemical change and then signals
satiation, but precisely when this occurs is unknown. Even for well-established
physiological systems like glucose-insulin regulation, the timing of interaction 
between hormonal processes and neural events is inferred mostly from blood
sampling. Recently, neuroimaging studies have provided in vivo information about 
the neuroanatomical correlates of the regulation of energy intake. Temporal
orchestration of such systems, however, is crucial to the integration of neuronal
and hormonal signals that control eating behaviour. The challenge of this
functional magnetic resonance imaging study is to map not only where but also
when the brain will respond after food ingestion. Here we use a temporal
clustering analysis technique to demonstrate that eating-related neural activity 
peaks at two different times with distinct localization. Importantly, the
differentiated responses are interacting with an internal signal, the plasma
insulin. These results support the concept of temporal parcellation of brain
activity, which reflects the different natures of stimuli and responses.
Moreover, this study provides a neuroimaging basis for detecting dynamic
processes without prior knowledge of their timing, such as the acute effects of
medication and nutrition in the brain.

DOI: 10.1038/35016590 
PMID: 10890447  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1055-8.

Mosaic evolution of brain structure in mammals.

Barton RA(1), Harvey PH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Durham, UK. r.a.barton@durham.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2002 Jan 10;415(6868):134-5.

The mammalian brain comprises a number of functionally distinct systems. It might
therefore be expected that natural selection on particular behavioural capacities
would have caused size changes selectively, in the systems mediating those
capacities. It has been claimed, however, that developmental constraints limited 
such mosaic evolution, causing co-ordinated size change among individual brain
components. Here we analyse comparative data to demonstrate that mosaic change
has been an important factor in brain structure evolution. First, the neocortex
shows about a fivefold difference in volume between primates and insectivores
even after accounting for its scaling relationship with the rest of the brain.
Second, brain structures with major anatomical and functional links evolved
together independently of evolutionary change in other structures. This is true
at the level of both basic brain subdivisions and more fine-grained functional
systems. Hence, brain evolution in these groups involved complex relationships
among individual brain components.

DOI: 10.1038/35016580 
PMID: 10890446  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1052-5.

Language trees support the express-train sequence of Austronesian expansion.

Gray RD(1), Jordan FM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Auckland, New Zealand.
rd.gray@auckland.ac.nz

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1008-9.

Languages, like molecules, document evolutionary history. Darwin observed that
evolutionary change in languages greatly resembled the processes of biological
evolution: inheritance from a common ancestor and convergent evolution operate in
both. Despite many suggestions, few attempts have been made to apply the
phylogenetic methods used in biology to linguistic data. Here we report a
parsimony analysis of a large language data set. We use this analysis to test
competing hypotheses--the "express-train" and the "entangled-bank" models--for
the colonization of the Pacific by Austronesian-speaking peoples. The parsimony
analysis of a matrix of 77 Austronesian languages with 5,185 lexical items
produced a single most-parsimonious tree. The express-train model was converted
into an ordered geographical character and mapped onto the language tree. We
found that the topology of the language tree was highly compatible with the
express-train model.

DOI: 10.1038/35016575 
PMID: 10890445  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1049-52.

Cryptophyte algae are robbed of their organelles by the marine ciliate Mesodinium
rubrum.

Gustafson DE Jr(1), Stoecker DK, Johnson MD, Van Heukelem WF, Sneider K.

Author information: 
(1)University of Maryland, Center for Environmental Science, Horn Point
Laboratory, Cambridge 21613, USA. gustafsn@hpl.umces.edu

Mesodinium rubrum (Lohmann 1908) Jankowski 1976 (= Myrionecta rubra) is a common 
photosynthetic marine planktonic ciliate which can form coastal red-tides. It may
represent a 'species complex' and since Darwin's voyage on the Beagle, it has
been of great cytological, physiological and evolutionary interest. It is
considered to be functionally a phytoplankter because it was thought to have lost
the capacity to feed and possesses a highly modified algal endosymbiont. Whether 
M. rubrum is the result of a permanent endosymbiosis or a transient association
between a ciliate and an alga is controversial. We conducted 'feeding'
experiments to determine how exposure to a cryptophyte alga affects M. rubrum.
Here we show that although M. rubrum lacks a cytostome (oral cavity), it ingests 
cryptophytes and steals their organelles, and may not maintain a permanent
endosymbiont. M. rubrum does not fall into recognized cellular or functional
categories, but may be a chimaera partially supported by organelle robbery.

DOI: 10.1038/35016570 
PMID: 10890444  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1047-9.

Ecosystem size determines food-chain length in lakes.

Post DM(1), Pace ML, Hairston NG Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Cornell University, Ithaca,
New York 14853, USA. dmp18@cornell.edu

Food-chain length is an important characteristic of ecological communities: it
influences community structure, ecosystem functions and contaminant
concentrations in top predators. Since Elton first noted that food-chain length
was variable among natural systems, ecologists have considered many explanatory
hypotheses, but few are supported by empirical evidence. Here we test three
hypotheses that predict food-chain length to be determined by productivity alone 
(productivity hypothesis), ecosystem size alone (ecosystem-size hypothesis) or a 
combination of productivity and ecosystem size (productive-space hypothesis). The
productivity and productive-space hypotheses propose that food-chain length
should increase with increasing resource availability; however, the productivity 
hypothesis does not include ecosystem size as a determinant of resource
availability. The ecosystem-size hypothesis is based on the relationship between 
ecosystem size and species diversity, habitat availability and habitat
heterogeneity. We find that food-chain length increases with ecosystem size, but 
that the length of the food chain is not related to productivity. Our results
support the hypothesis that ecosystem size, and not resource availability,
determines food-chain length in these natural ecosystems.

DOI: 10.1038/35016565 
PMID: 10890443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1044-7.

The plastic deformation of iron at pressures of the Earth's inner core

Wenk HR(1), Matthies S, Hemley RJ, Mao HK, Shu J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, University of California, Berkeley
94720, USA. wenk@seismo.berkeley.edu

Soon after the discovery of seismic anisotropy in the Earth's inner core, it was 
suggested that crystal alignment attained during deformation might be
responsible. Since then, several other mechanisms have been proposed to account
for the observed anisotropy, but the lack of deformation experiments performed at
the extreme pressure conditions corresponding to the solid inner core has limited
our ability to determine which deformation mechanism applies to this region of
the Earth. Here we determine directly the elastic and plastic deformation
mechanism of iron at pressures of the Earth's core, from synchrotron X-ray
diffraction measurements of iron, under imposed axial stress, in diamond-anvil
cells. The epsilon-iron (hexagonally close packed) crystals display strong
preferred orientation, with c-axes parallel to the axis of the diamond-anvil
cell. Polycrystal plasticity theory predicts an alignment of c-axes parallel to
the compression direction as a result of basal slip, if basal slip is either the 
primary or a secondary slip system. The experiments provide direct observations
of deformation mechanisms that occur in the Earth's inner core, and introduce a
method for investigating, within the laboratory, the rheology of materials at
extreme pressures.

DOI: 10.1038/35016558 
PMID: 10890442 


506. Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1040-4.

Palaeotemperature reconstruction from noble gases in ground water taking into
account equilibration with entrapped air

Aeschbach-Hertig W(1), Peeters F, Beyerle U, Kipfer R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Water Resources and Drinking Water, Swiss Federal Institute of
Environmental Science and Technology (EAWAG), Dubendorf, Switzerland.
aeschbach@eawag.ch

Noble-gas concentrations in ground water have been used as a proxy for past air
temperatures, but the accuracy of this approach has been limited by the existence
of a temperature-independent component of the noble gases in ground water, termed
'excess air' whose origin and composition is poorly understood. In particular,
the evidence from noble gases in a Brazilian aquifer for a cooling of more than 5
C in tropical America during the Last Glacial Maximum has been called into
question. Here we propose a model for dissolved gases in ground water, which
describes the formation of excess air by equilibration of ground water with
entrapped air in quasi-saturated soils. Our model predicts previously unexplained
noble-gas data sets, including the concentration of atmospheric helium, and
yields consistent results for the non-atmospheric helium isotopes that are used
for dating ground water. Using this model of excess air, we re-evaluate the use
of noble gases from ground water for reconstructing past temperatures. Our
results corroborate the inferred cooling in Brazil during the Last Glacial
Maximum, and indicate that even larger cooling took place at mid-latitudes.

DOI: 10.1038/35016542 
PMID: 10890441 


507. Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1036-40.

Structural basis for the fracture toughness of the shell of the conch Strombus
gigas.

Kamat S(1), Su X, Ballarini R, Heuer AH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Case Western Reserve
University, Cleveland, Ohio 44106-7204, USA.

Natural composite materials are renowned for their mechanical strength and
toughness: despite being highly mineralized, with the organic component
constituting not more than a few per cent of the composite material, the fracture
toughness exceeds that of single crystals of the pure mineral by two to three
orders of magnitude. The judicious placement of the organic matrix, relative to
the mineral phase, and the hierarchical structural architecture extending over
several distinct length scales both play crucial roles in the mechanical response
of natural composites to external loads. Here we use transmission electron
microscopy studies and beam bending experiments to show that the resistance of
the shell of the conch Strombus gigas to catastrophic fracture can be understood 
quantitatively by invoking two energy-dissipating mechanisms: multiple
microcracking in the outer layers at low mechanical loads, and crack bridging in 
the shell's tougher middle layers at higher loads. Both mechanisms are intimately
associated with the so-called crossed lamellar microarchitecture of the shell,
which provides for 'channel' cracking in the outer layers and uncracked
structural features that bridge crack surfaces, thereby significantly increasing 
the work of fracture, and hence the toughness, of the material. Despite a high
mineral content of about 99% (by volume) of aragonite, the shell of Strombus
gigas can thus be considered a 'ceramic plywood' and can guide the biomimetic
design of tough, lightweight structures.

DOI: 10.1038/35016535 
PMID: 10890440  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1033-6.

Dynamic self-assembly of magnetized, millimetre-sized objects rotating at a
liquid-air interface

Grzybowski BA(1), Stone HA, Whitesides GM.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard University, Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Spontaneous pattern formation by self-assembly is of long-standing and continuing
interest not only for its aesthetic appeal, but also for its fundamental and
technological relevance. So far, the study of self-organization processes has
mainly focused on static structures, but dynamic systems--those that develop
order only when dissipating energy--are of particular interest for studying
complex behaviour. Here we describe the formation of dynamic patterns of
millimetre-sized magnetic disks at a liquid-air interface, subject to a magnetic 
field produced by a rotating permanent magnet. The disks spin around their axes
with angular frequency equal to that of the magnet, and are attracted towards its
axis of rotation while repelling each other. This repulsive hydrodynamic
interaction is due to fluid motion associated with spinning; the interplay
between attractive and repulsive interactions leads to the formation of patterns 
exhibiting various types of ordering, some of which are entirely new. This
versatile system should lead to a better understanding of dynamic self-assembly, 
while providing a test-bed for stability theories of interacting point vortices
and vortex patches.

DOI: 10.1038/35016528 
PMID: 10890439 


509. Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1030-3.

Collapse of stiff conjugated polymers with chemical defects into ordered,
cylindrical conformations

Hu D(1), Yu J, Wong K, Bagchi B, Rossky PJ, Barbara PF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry, University of Texas, Austin 78712,
USA.

The optical, electronic and mechanical properties of synthetic and biological
materials consisting of polymer chains depend sensitively on the conformation
adopted by these chains. The range of conformations available to such systems has
accordingly been of intense fundamental as well as practical interest, and
distinct conformational classes have been predicted, depending on the stiffness
of the polymer chains and the strength of attractive interactions between
segments within a chain. For example, flexible polymers should adopt highly
disordered conformations resembling either a random coil or, in the presence of
strong intrachain attractions, a so-called 'molten globule'. Stiff polymers with 
strong intrachain interactions, in contrast, are expected to collapse into
conformations with long-range order, in the shape of toroids or rod-like
structures. Here we use computer simulations to show that the anisotropy
distribution obtained from polarization spectroscopy measurements on individual
poly[2-methoxy-5-(2'-ethylhexyl)oxy-1,4-phenylenevinylene] polymer molecules is
consistent with this prototypical stiff conjugated polymer adopting a highly
ordered, collapsed conformation that cannot be correlated with ideal toroid or
rod structures. We find that the presence of so-called 'tetrahedral chemical
defects', where conjugated carbon-carbon links are replaced by tetrahedral links,
divides the polymer chain into structurally identifiable quasi-straight segments 
that allow the molecule to adopt cylindrical conformations. Indeed, highly
ordered, cylindrical conformations may be a critical factor in dictating the
extraordinary photophysical properties of conjugated polymers, including highly
efficient intramolecular energy transfer and significant local optical anisotropy
in thin films.

DOI: 10.1038/35016520 
PMID: 10890438 


510. Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1027-30.

The mean free path for electron conduction in metallic fullerenes

Gunnarsson O(1), Han JE.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut fur Festkorperforschung, Stuttgart, Germany.
gunnar@and.mpi-stuttgart.mpg.de

The electrical resistivity, p, of a metal is usually interpreted in terms of the 
mean free path (the average distance, l, an electron travels before it is
scattered). As the temperature is raised, the resistivity increases and the
apparent mean free path is correspondingly reduced. In this semi-classical
picture, the mean free path cannot be much shorter than the distance, d, between 
two atoms. This has been confirmed for many systems and was considered to be a
universal behaviour. Recently, some apparent exceptions were found, including
alkali-doped fullerenes and high-temperature superconductors. However, there
remains the possibility that these systems are in exotic states, with only a
small fraction of the conduction electrons contributing to the conductivity; the 
mean free path would then have to be correspondingly larger to explain the
observed resistivity. Here we report a model calculation of electron conduction
in alkali-doped fullerenes, in which the electrons are scattered by
intramolecular vibrations. The resistivity at large temperatures implies l << d, 
demonstrating that there is no fundamental principle requiring l > or = d. At
high temperatures, the semi-classical picture breaks down, and the electrons
cannot be described as quasiparticles.

DOI: 10.1038/35016512 
PMID: 10890437 


511. Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1025-7.

Deuterium in the Galactic Centre as a result of recent infall of low-metallicity 
gas.

Lubowich DA(1), Pasachoff JM, Balonek TJ, Millar TJ, Tremonti C, Roberts H,
Galloway RP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Hofstra University, Hempstead, New York
11550, USA. dlubowic@aip.org

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1009, 1011.

The Galactic Centre is the most active and heavily processed region of the Milky 
Way, so it can be used as a stringent test for the abundance of deuterium (a
sensitive indicator of conditions in the first 1,000 seconds in the life of the
Universe). As deuterium is destroyed in stellar interiors, chemical evolution
models predict that its Galactic Centre abundance relative to hydrogen is D/H = 5
x 10(-12), unless there is a continuous source of deuterium from relatively
primordial (low-metallicity) gas. Here we report the detection of deuterium (in
the molecule DCN) in a molecular cloud only 10 parsecs from the Galactic Centre. 
Our data, when combined with a model of molecular abundances, indicate that D/H =
(1.7 +/- 0.3) x 10(-6), five orders of magnitude larger than the predictions of
evolutionary models with no continuous source of deuterium. The most probable
explanation is recent infall of relatively unprocessed metal-poor gas into the
Galactic Centre (at the rate inferred by Wakker). Our measured D/H is nine times 
less than the local interstellar value, and the lowest D/H observed in the
Galaxy. We conclude that the observed Galactic Centre deuterium is cosmological, 
with an abundance reduced by stellar processing and mixing, and that there is no 
significant Galactic source of deuterium.

DOI: 10.1038/35016506 
PMID: 10890436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Nature. 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1017-24.

Effect of aquaculture on world fish supplies.

Naylor RL(1), Goldburg RJ, Primavera JH, Kautsky N, Beveridge MC, Clay J, Folke
C, Lubchenco J, Mooney H, Troell M.

Author information: 
(1)Stanford University, Institute for International Studies, California
94305-6055, USA. roz@leland.stanford.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Aug 17;406(6797):673.

Global production of farmed fish and shellfish has more than doubled in the past 
15 years. Many people believe that such growth relieves pressure on ocean
fisheries, but the opposite is true for some types of aquaculture. Farming
carnivorous species requires large inputs of wild fish for feed. Some aquaculture
systems also reduce wild fish supplies through habitat modification, wild
seedstock collection and other ecological impacts. On balance, global aquaculture
production still adds to world fish supplies; however, if the growing aquaculture
industry is to sustain its contribution to world fish supplies, it must reduce
wild fish inputs in feed and adopt more ecologically sound management practices.

DOI: 10.1038/35016500 
PMID: 10890435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):974-8.

Compromised HOXA5 function can limit p53 expression in human breast tumours.

Raman V(1), Martensen SA, Reisman D, Evron E, Odenwald WF, Jaffee E, Marks J,
Sukumar S.

Author information: 
(1)Breast Cancer Program, Johns Hopkins Oncology Center, Baltimore, Maryland
21231, USA.

Expression of the p53 gene protects cells against malignant transformation.
Whereas control of p53 degradation has been a subject of intense scrutiny, little
is known about the factors that regulate p53 synthesis. Here we show that p53
messenger RNA levels are low in a large proportion of breast tumours. Seeking
potential regulators of p53 transcription, we found consensus HOX binding sites
in the p53 promoterS. Transient transfection of Hox/HOXA5 activated the p53
promoter. Expression of HOXA5 in epithelial cancer cells expressing wild-type
p53, but not in isogenic variants lacking the p53 gene, led to apoptotic cell
death. Moreover, breast cancer cell lines and patient tumours display a
coordinate loss of p53 and HOXA5 mRNA and protein expression. The HOXA5 promoter 
region was methylated in 16 out of 20 p53-negative breast tumour specimens. We
conclude that loss of expression of p53 in human breast cancer may be primarily
due to lack of expression of HOXA5.

DOI: 10.1038/35016125 
PMID: 10879542  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):970-3.

An extracellular activator of the Drosophila JAK/STAT pathway is a
sex-determination signal element.

Sefton L(1), Timmer JR, Zhang Y, Béranger F, Cline TW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley
94720-3204, USA.

Metazoans use diverse and rapidly evolving mechanisms to determine sex. In
Drosophila melanogaster an X-chromosome-counting mechanism determines the sex of 
an individual by regulating the master switch gene, Sex-lethal (Sxl). The
X-chromosome dose is communicated to Sxl by a set of X-linked signal elements
(XSEs), which activate transcription of Sxl through its 'establishment' promoter,
SxlPe. Here we describe a new XSE called sisterlessC (sisC) whose mode of action 
differs from that of previously characterized XSEs, all of which encode
transcription factors that activate SxlPe directly. In contrast, sisC encodes a
secreted ligand for the Drosophila Janus kinase (JAK) and 'signal transducer and 
activator of transcription' (STAT) signal transduction pathway and is allelic to 
outstretched (os, also called unpaired). We conclude that sisC works indirectly
on Sxl through this signalling pathway because mutations in sisC or in the genes 
encoding Drosophila JAK or STAT reduce expression of SxlPe similarly. The
involvement of os in sex determination confirms that secreted ligands can
function in cell-autonomous processes. Unlike sex signals for other organisms,
sisC has acquired its sex-specific function while maintaining non-sex-specific
roles in development, a characteristic that it shares with all other Drosophila
XSEs.

DOI: 10.1038/35016119 
PMID: 10879541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):966-70.

Embryonic lethality in mice homozygous for a processing-deficient allele of
Notch1.

Huppert SS(1), Le A, Schroeter EH, Mumm JS, Saxena MT, Milner LA, Kopan R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Pharmacology, Washington University School
of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):616.

The Notch genes encode single-pass transmembrane receptors that transduce the
extracellular signals responsible for cell fate determination during several
steps of metazoan development. The mechanism by which extracellular signals
affect gene transcription and ultimately cell fate decisions is beginning to
emerge for the Notch signalling pathway. One paradigm is that ligand binding to
Notch triggers a Presenilin1-dependent proteolytic release of the Notch
intracellular domain from the membrane, resulting in low amounts of Notch
intracellular domain which form a nuclear complex with CBF1/Su(H)/Lag1 to
activate transcription of downstream targets. Not all observations clearly
support this processing model, and the most rigorous test of it is to block
processing in vivo and then determine the ability of unprocessed Notch to signal.
Here we report that the phenotypes associated with a single point mutation at the
intramembranous processing site of Notch1, Val1,744-->Gly, resemble the null
Notch1 phenotype. Our results show that efficient intramembranous processing of
Notch1 is indispensable for embryonic viability and proper early embryonic
development in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/35016111 
PMID: 10879540  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):962-6.

A small-molecule nitroimidazopyran drug candidate for the treatment of
tuberculosis.

Stover CK(1), Warrener P, VanDevanter DR, Sherman DR, Arain TM, Langhorne MH,
Anderson SW, Towell JA, Yuan Y, McMurray DN, Kreiswirth BN, Barry CE, Baker WR.

Author information: 
(1)PathoGenesis Corporation, Seattle, Washington 98119, USA.
kstover@pathogenesis.com

Mycobacterium tuberculosis, which causes tuberculosis, is the greatest single
infectious cause of mortality worldwide, killing roughly two million people
annually. Estimates indicate that one-third of the world population is infected
with latent M. tuberculosis. The synergy between tuberculosis and the AIDS
epidemic, and the surge of multidrug-resistant clinical isolates of M.
tuberculosis have reaffirmed tuberculosis as a primary public health threat.
However, new antitubercular drugs with new mechanisms of action have not been
developed in over thirty years. Here we report a series of compounds containing a
nitroimidazopyran nucleus that possess antitubercular activity. After activation 
by a mechanism dependent on M. tuberculosis F420 cofactor, nitroimidazopyrans
inhibited the synthesis of protein and cell wall lipid. In contrast to current
antitubercular drugs, nitroimidazopyrans exhibited bactericidal activity against 
both replicating and static M. tuberculosis. Lead compound PA-824 showed potent
bactericidal activity against multidrugresistant M. tuberculosis and promising
oral activity in animal infection models. We conclude that nitroimidazopyrans
offer the practical qualities of a small molecule with the potential for the
treatment of tuberculosis.

DOI: 10.1038/35016103 
PMID: 10879539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):959-62.

Stable germline transformation of the malaria mosquito Anopheles stephensi.

Catteruccia F(1), Nolan T, Loukeris TG, Blass C, Savakis C, Kafatos FC, Crisanti 
A.

Author information: 
(1)Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine, London, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):900-1.

Anopheline mosquito species are obligatory vectors for human malaria, an
infectious disease that affects hundreds of millions of people living in tropical
and subtropical countries. The lack of a suitable gene transfer technology for
these mosquitoes has hampered the molecular genetic analysis of their physiology,
including the molecular interactions between the vector and the malaria parasite.
Here we show that a transposon, based on the Minos element and bearing exogenous 
DNA, can integrate efficiently and stably into the germ line of the human malaria
vector Anopheles stephensi, through a transposase-mediated process.

DOI: 10.1038/35016096 
PMID: 10879538  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):955-9.

Regulation of distinct AMPA receptor phosphorylation sites during bidirectional
synaptic plasticity.

Lee HK(1), Barbarosie M, Kameyama K, Bear MF, Huganir RL.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins
Medical School, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

Bidirectional changes in the efficacy of neuronal synaptic transmission, such as 
hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), are
thought to be mechanisms for information storage in the brain. LTP and LTD may be
mediated by the modulation of AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazloe
proprionic acid) receptor phosphorylation. Here we show that LTP and LTD
reversibly modify the phosphorylation of the AMPA receptor GluR1 subunit.
However, contrary to the hypothesis that LTP and LTD are the functional inverse
of each other, we find that they are associated with phosphorylation and
dephosphorylation, respectively, of distinct GluR1 phosphorylation sites.
Moreover, the site modulated depends on the stimulation history of the synapse.
LTD induction in naive synapses dephosphorylates the major cyclic-AMP-dependent
protein kinase (PKA) site, whereas in potentiated synapses the major
calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) site is dephosphorylated.
Conversely, LTP induction in naive synapses and depressed synapses increases
phosphorylation of the CaMKII site and the PKA site, respectively. LTP is
differentially sensitive to CaMKII and PKA inhibitors depending on the history of
the synapse. These results indicate that AMPA receptor phosphorylation is
critical for synaptic plasticity, and that identical stimulation conditions
recruit different signal-transduction pathways depending on synaptic history.

DOI: 10.1038/35016089 
PMID: 10879537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):951-5.

Induction of neurogenesis in the neocortex of adult mice.

Magavi SS(1), Leavitt BR, Macklis JD.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuroscience, Children's Hospital, and Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):892-3, 895.

Neurogenesis normally only occurs in limited areas of the adult mammalian
brain--the hippocampus, olfactory bulb and epithelium, and at low levels in some 
regions of macaque cortex. Here we show that endogenous neural precursors can be 
induced in situ to differentiate into mature neurons, in regions of adult
mammalian neocortex that do not normally undergo any neurogenesis. This
differentiation occurs in a layer- and region-specific manner, and the neurons
can re-form appropriate corticothalamic connections. We induced synchronous
apoptotic degeneration of corticothalamic neurons in layer VI of anterior cortex 
of adult mice and examined the fates of dividing cells within cortex, using
markers for DNA replication (5-bromodeoxyuridine; BrdU) and progressive neuronal 
differentiation. Newly made, BrdU-positive cells expressed NeuN, a mature
neuronal marker, in regions of cortex undergoing targeted neuronal death and
survived for at least 28 weeks. Subsets of BrdU+ precursors expressed
Doublecortin, a protein found exclusively in migrating neurons, and Hu, an early 
neuronal marker. Retrograde labelling from thalamus demonstrated that BrdU+
neurons can form long-distance corticothalamic connections. Our results indicate 
that neuronal replacement therapies for neurodegenerative disease and CNS injury 
may be possible through manipulation of endogenous neural precursors in situ.

DOI: 10.1038/35016083 
PMID: 10879536  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):947-51.

Digital selection and analogue amplification coexist in a cortex-inspired silicon
circuit.

Hahnloser RH(1), Sarpeshkar R, Mahowald MA, Douglas RJ, Seung HS.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroinformatics ETHZ/UNIZ, Zürich, Switzerland. rh@ai.mit.edu

Erratum in
    Nature 2000 Dec 21-28;408(6815):1012.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):891-2.

Digital circuits such as the flip-flop use feedback to achieve multistability and
nonlinearity to restore signals to logical levels, for example 0 and 1. Analogue 
feedback circuits are generally designed to operate linearly, so that signals are
over a range, and the response is unique. By contrast, the response of cortical
circuits to sensory stimulation can be both multistable and graded. We propose
that the neocortex combines digital selection of an active set of neurons with
analogue response by dynamically varying the positive feedback inherent in its
recurrent connections. Strong positive feedback causes differential instabilities
that drive the selection of a set of active neurons under the constraints
embedded in the synaptic weights. Once selected, the active neurons generate
weaker, stable feedback that provides analogue amplification of the input. Here
we present our model of cortical processing as an electronic circuit that
emulates this hybrid operation, and so is able to perform computations that are
similar to stimulus selection, gain modulation and spatiotemporal pattern
generation in the neocortex.

DOI: 10.1038/35016072 
PMID: 10879535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):944-7.

Diversity and endemism of the benthic seamount fauna in the southwest Pacific.

de Forges BR(1), Koslow JA, Poore GC.

Author information: 
(1)Centre IRD de Noumea, Noumea, New Caledonia.

Seamounts comprise a unique deep-sea environment, characterized by substantially 
enhanced currents and a fauna that is dominated by suspension feeders, such as
corals. The potential importance of these steep-sided undersea mountains, which
are generally of volcanic origin, to ocean biogeography and diversity was
recognized over 40 years ago, but this environment has remained very poorly
explored. A review of seamount biota and biogeography reported a total of 597
invertebrate species recorded from seamounts worldwide since the Challenger
expedition of 1872. Most reports, based on a single taxonomic group, were
extremely limited: 5 seamounts of the estimated more than 30,000 seamounts in the
world's oceans accounted for 72% of the species recorded. Only 15% of the species
occurring on seamounts were considered potential seamount endemics. Here we
report the discovery of more than 850 macro- and megafaunal species from
seamounts in the Tasman Sea and southeast Coral Sea, of which 29-34% are new to
science and potential seamount endemics. Low species overlap between seamounts in
different portions of the region indicates that the seamounts in clusters or
along ridge systems function as 'island groups' or 'chains' leading to highly
localized species distributions and apparent speciation between groups or ridge
systems that is exceptional for the deep sea. These results have substantial
implications for the conservation of this fauna, which is threatened by fishing
activity.

DOI: 10.1038/35016066 
PMID: 10879534  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):941-4.

A pug-nosed crocodyliform from the Late Cretaceous of Madagascar.

Buckley GA(1), Brochu CA, Krause DW, Pol D.

Author information: 
(1)Evelyn T. Stone University College, Roosevelt University, Chicago, Illinois
60605, USA.

Although the image of crocodyliforms as 'unchanged living fossils' is naive,
several morphological features of the group are thought to have varied only
within narrow limits during the course of evolution. These include an elongate
snout with an array of conical teeth, a dorsoventrally flattened skull and a
posteriorly positioned jaw articulation, which provides a powerful bite force.
Here we report an exquisitely preserved specimen of a new taxon from the Late
Cretaceous of Madagascar that deviates profoundly from this Bauplan, possessing
an extremely blunt snout, a tall, rounded skull, an anteriorly shifted jaw joint 
and clove-shaped, multicusped teeth reminiscent of those of some ornithischian
dinosaurs. This last feature implies that the diet of the new taxon may have been
predominantly if not exclusively herbivorous. A close relationship with
notosuchid crocodyliforms, particularly Uruguaysuchus (Late Cretaceous, Uruguay) 
is suggested by several shared derived features; this supports a biogeographical 
hypothesis that Madagascar and South America were linked during the Late
Cretaceous.

DOI: 10.1038/35016061 
PMID: 10879533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):938-41.

Mapping the Hawaiian plume conduit with converted seismic waves

Li X(1), Kind R, Priestley K, Sobolev SV, Tilmann F, Yuan X, Weber M.

Author information: 
(1)GeoForschungsZentrum Potsdam, Germany.

The volcanic edifice of the Hawaiian islands and seamounts, as well as the
surrounding area of shallow sea floor known as the Hawaiian swell, are believed
to result from the passage of the oceanic lithosphere over a mantle hotspot.
Although geochemical and gravity observations indicate the existence of a mantle 
thermal plume beneath Hawaii, no direct seismic evidence for such a plume in the 
upper mantle has yet been found. Here we present an analysis of
compressional-to-shear (P-to-S) converted seismic phases, recorded on seismograph
stations on the Hawaiian islands, that indicate a zone of very low shear-wave
velocity (< 4 km s(-1)) starting at 130-140 km depth beneath the central part of 
the island of Hawaii and extending deeper into the upper mantle. We also find
that the upper-mantle transition zone (410-660 km depth) appears to be thinned by
up to 40-50 km to the south-southwest of the island of Hawaii. We interpret these
observations as localized effects of the Hawaiian plume conduit in the
asthenosphere and mantle transition zone with excess temperature of approximately
300 degrees C. Large variations in the transition-zone thickness suggest a
lower-mantle origin of the Hawaiian plume similar to the Iceland plume, but our
results indicate a 100 degrees C higher temperature for the Hawaiian plume.

DOI: 10.1038/35016054 
PMID: 10879532 


524. Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):935-8.

Reduced North Atlantic Deep Water flux to the glacial Southern Ocean inferred
from neodymium isotope ratios

Rutberg RL(1), Hemming SR, Goldstein SL.

Author information: 
(1)Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and Department of Earth and Environmental
Sciences, Columbia University, Palisades, New York 10964, USA.

The global circulation of the oceans and the atmosphere transports heat around
the Earth. Broecker and Denton suggested that changes in the global ocean
circulation might have triggered or enhanced the glacial-interglacial cycles. But
proxy data for past circulation taken from sediment cores in the South Atlantic
Ocean have yielded conflicting interpretations of ocean circulation in glacial
times--delta13C variations in benthic foraminifera support the idea of a glacial 
weakening or shutdown of North Atlantic Deep Water production, whereas other
proxies, such as Cd/Ca, Ba/Ca and 231Pa/230Th ratios, show little change from the
Last Glacial Maximum to the Holocene epoch. Here we report neodymium isotope
ratios from the dispersed Fe-Mn oxide component of two southeast Atlantic
sediment cores. Both cores show variations that tend towards North Atlantic
signatures during the warm marine isotope stages 1 and 3, whereas for the full
glacial stages 2 and 4 they are closer to Pacific Ocean signatures. We conclude
that the export of North Atlantic Deep Water to the Southern Ocean has resembled 
present-day conditions during the warm climate intervals, but was reduced during 
the cold stages. An increase in biological productivity may explain the various
proxy data during the times of reduced North Atlantic Deep Water export.

DOI: 10.1038/35016049 
PMID: 10879531 


525. Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):932-5.

Enantioselective magnetochiral photochemistry

Rikken GL(1), Raupach E.

Author information: 
(1)Grenoble High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Max Planck Institut fur
Festkorperforschung/CNRS, France. rikken@polycnrs-gre.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):895-6.

Many chemical and physical systems can occur in two forms distinguished solely by
being mirror images of each other. This phenomenon, known as chirality, is
important in biochemistry, where reactions involving chiral molecules often
require the participation of one specific enantiomer (mirror image) of the two
possible ones. In fact, terrestrial life utilizes only the L enantiomers of amino
acids, a pattern that is known as the 'homochirality of life' and which has
stimulated long-standing efforts to understand its origin. Reactions can proceed 
enantioselectively if chiral reactants or catalysts are involved, or if some
external chiral influence is present. But because chiral reactants and catalysts 
themselves require an enantioselective production process, efforts to understand 
the homochirality of life have focused on external chiral influences. One such
external influence is circularly polarized light, which can influence the
chirality of photochemical reaction products. Because natural optical activity,
which occurs exclusively in media lacking mirror symmetry, and magnetic optical
activity, which can occur in all media and is induced by longitudinal magnetic
fields, both cause polarization rotation of light, the potential for magnetically
induced enantioselectivity in chemical reactions has been investigated, but no
convincing demonstrations of such an effect have been found. Here we show
experimentally that magnetochiral anisotropy--an effect linking chirality and
magnetism--can give rise to an enantiomeric excess in a photochemical reaction
driven by unpolarized light in a parallel magnetic field, which suggests that
this effect may have played a role in the origin of the homochirality of life.

DOI: 10.1038/35016043 
PMID: 10879530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):929-32.

Gigantic optical nonlinearity in one-dimensional Mott-Hubbard insulators

Kishida H(1), Matsuzaki H, Okamoto H, Manabe T, Yamashita M, Taguchi Y, Tokura Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Advanced Materials Science, Graduate School of Frontier
Sciences, University of Tokyo, Japan.

The realization of all-optical switching, modulating and computing devices is an 
important goal in modern optical technology. Nonlinear optical materials with
large third-order nonlinear susceptibilities (chi(3)) are indispensable for such 
devices, because the magnitude of this quantity dominates the device performance.
A key strategy in the development of new materials with large nonlinear
susceptibilities is the exploration of quasi-one-dimensional systems, or 'quantum
wires'--the quantum confinement of electron-hole motion in one-dimensional space 
can enhance chi(3). Two types of chemically synthesized quantum wires have been
extensively studied: the band insulators of silicon polymers, and Peierls
insulators of pi-conjugated polymers and platinum halides. In these systems,
chi(3) values of 10(-12) to 10(-7) e.s.u. (electrostatic system of units) have
been reported. Here we demonstrate an anomalous enhancement of the third-order
nonlinear susceptibility in a different category of quantum wires:
one-dimensional Mott insulators of 3d transition-metal oxides and halides. By
analysing the electroreflectance spectra of these compounds, we measure chi(3)
values in the range 10(-8) to 10(-5) e.s.u. The anomalous enhancement results
from a large dipole moment between the lowest two excited states of these
systems.

DOI: 10.1038/35016036 
PMID: 10879529 


527. Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):926-9.

Optical emission from a charge-tunable quantum ring

Warburton RJ(1), Schaflein C, Haft D, Bickel F, Lorke A, Karrai K, Garcia JM,
Schoenfeld W, Petroff PM.

Author information: 
(1)Center for NanoScience and Sektion Physik, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitat,
Munchen, Germany. R.J.Warburton@hw.ac.uk

Quantum dots or rings are artificial nanometre-sized clusters that confine
electrons in all three directions. They can be fabricated in a semiconductor
system by embedding an island of low-bandgap material in a sea of material with a
higher bandgap. Quantum dots are often referred to as artificial atoms because,
when filled sequentially with electrons, the charging energies are pronounced for
particular electron numbers; this is analogous to Hund's rules in atomic physics.
But semiconductors also have a valence band with strong optical transitions to
the conduction band. These transitions are the basis for the application of
quantum dots as laser emitters, storage devices and fluorescence markers. Here we
report how the optical emission (photoluminescence) of a single quantum ring
changes as electrons are added one-by-one. We find that the emission energy
changes abruptly whenever an electron is added to the artificial atom, and that
the sizes of the jumps reveal a shell structure.

DOI: 10.1038/35016030 
PMID: 10879528 


528. Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):923-6.

Hidden symmetries in the energy levels of excitonic 'artificial atoms'

Bayer M(1), Stern O, Hawrylak P, Fafard S, Forchel A.

Author information: 
(1)Technische Physik, Universitat Wurzburg, Germany.
mbayer@physik.uni-wuerzburg.de

Quantum dots or 'artificial atoms' are of fundamental and technological
interest--for example, quantum dots may form the basis of new generations of
lasers. The emission in quantum-dot lasers originates from the recombination of
excitonic complexes, so it is important to understand the dot's internal
electronic structure (and of fundamental interest to compare this to real atomic 
structure). Here we investigate artificial electronic structure by injecting
optically a controlled number of electrons and holes into an isolated single
quantum dot. The charge carriers form complexes that are artificial analogues of 
hydrogen, helium, lithium, beryllium, boron and carbon excitonic atoms. We
observe that electrons and holes occupy the confined electronic shells in
characteristic numbers according to the Pauli exclusion principle. In each
degenerate shell, collective condensation of the electrons and holes into
coherent many-exciton ground states takes place; this phenomenon results from
hidden symmetries (the analogue of Hund's rules for real atoms) in the energy
function that describes the multi-particle system. Breaking of the hidden
symmetries leads to unusual quantum interferences in emission involving excited
states.

DOI: 10.1038/35016020 
PMID: 10879527 


529. Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):921-3.

Optical detection of meteoroidal impacts on the Moon

Ortiz JL(1), Sada PV, Bellot Rubio LR, Aceituno FJ, Aceituno J, Gutierrez PJ,
Thiele U.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Astrofisica de Andalucia, CSIC, Granada, Spain. ortiz@iaa.es

Impacts of meteoroids on the Moon should cause detectable optical flashes, but
the population of objects that are big enough is very low, and hitherto no
unambiguous impact flashes have been recorded. The flux of meteoroids associated 
with the Leonid meteor shower of 18 November 1999 was predicted to produce
observable flashes on the night side of the Moon. Here we report the unambiguous 
detection of five such impact flashes, three of which were seen simultaneously by
other observers. We also observed a possible impact flash on 16 July 1999. All of
the flashes were of very brief duration (<0.02 s), as expected for high-speed
impacts.

DOI: 10.1038/35016015 
PMID: 10879526 


530. Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):914-9.

Crystal structure of the bacterial membrane protein TolC central to multidrug
efflux and protein export.

Koronakis V(1), Sharff A, Koronakis E, Luisi B, Hughes C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Cambridge, UK.

Diverse molecules, from small antibacterial drugs to large protein toxins, are
exported directly across both cell membranes of gram-negative bacteria. This
export is brought about by the reversible interaction of substrate-specific
inner-membrane proteins with an outer-membrane protein of the TolC family, thus
bypassing the intervening periplasm. Here we report the 2.1-A crystal structure
of TolC from Escherichia coli, revealing a distinctive and previously unknown
fold. Three TolC protomers assemble to form a continuous, solvent-accessible
conduit--a 'channel-tunnel' over 140 A long that spans both the outer membrane
and periplasmic space. The periplasmic or proximal end of the tunnel is sealed by
sets of coiled helices. We suggest these could be untwisted by an allosteric
mechanism, mediated by protein-protein interactions, to open the tunnel. The
structure provides an explanation of how the cell cytosol is connected to the
external environment during export, and suggests a general mechanism for the
action of bacterial efflux pumps.

DOI: 10.1038/35016007 
PMID: 10879525  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Nature. 2000 Jun 22;405(6789):907-13.

The genetic legacy of the Quaternary ice ages.

Hewitt G(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK.
g.hewitt@uea.ac.uk

Global climate has fluctuated greatly during the past three million years,
leading to the recent major ice ages. An inescapable consequence for most living 
organisms is great changes in their distribution, which are expressed differently
in boreal, temperate and tropical zones. Such range changes can be expected to
have genetic consequences, and the advent of DNA technology provides most
suitable markers to examine these. Several good data sets are now available,
which provide tests of expectations, insights into species colonization and
unexpected genetic subdivision and mixture of species. The genetic structure of
human populations may be viewed in the same context. The present genetic
structure of populations, species and communities has been mainly formed by
Quaternary ice ages, and genetic, fossil and physical data combined can greatly
help our understanding of how organisms were so affected.

DOI: 10.1038/35016000 
PMID: 10879524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):857-65.

Pharmacogenetics and the practice of medicine.

Roses AD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Genetics Directorate, Glaxo Wellcome plc, Greenford, Middlesex, UK.

"If it were not for the great variability among individuals medicine might as
well be a science and not an art." The thoughts of Sir William Osler in 1892
reflect the view of medicine over the past 100 years. The role of physicians in
making the necessary judgements about the medicines that they prescribe is often 
referred to as an art, reflecting the lack of objective data available to make
decisions that are tailored to individual patients. Just over a hundred years
later we are on the verge of being able to identify inherited differences between
individuals which can predict each patient's response to a medicine. This ability
will have far-reaching benefits in the discovery, development and delivery of
medicines. Sir William Osler, if he were alive today, would be re-considering his
view of medicine as an art not a science.

DOI: 10.1038/35015728 
PMID: 10866212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):847-56.

Searching for genetic determinants in the new millennium.

Risch NJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, California
94305-5120, USA.

Human genetics is now at a critical juncture. The molecular methods used
successfully to identify the genes underlying rare mendelian syndromes are
failing to find the numerous genes causing more common, familial, non-mendelian
diseases. With the human genome sequence nearing completion, new opportunities
are being presented for unravelling the complex genetic basis of non-mendelian
disorders based on large-scale genome-wide studies. Considerable debate has
arisen regarding the best approach to take. In this review I discuss these
issues, together with suggestions for optimal post-genome strategies.

DOI: 10.1038/35015718 
PMID: 10866211  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):837-46.

Proteomics to study genes and genomes.

Pandey A(1), Mann M.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Nine Cambridge Center,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Proteomics, the large-scale analysis of proteins, will contribute greatly to our 
understanding of gene function in the post-genomic era. Proteomics can be divided
into three main areas: (1) protein micro-characterization for large-scale
identification of proteins and their post-translational modifications; (2)
'differential display' proteomics for comparison of protein levels with potential
application in a wide range of diseases; and (3) studies of protein-protein
interactions using techniques such as mass spectrometry or the yeast two-hybrid
system. Because it is often difficult to predict the function of a protein based 
on homology to other proteins or even their three-dimensional structure,
determination of components of a protein complex or of a cellular structure is
central in functional analysis. This aspect of proteomic studies is perhaps the
area of greatest promise. After the revolution in molecular biology exemplified
by the ease of cloning by DNA methods, proteomics will add to our understanding
of the biochemistry of proteins, processes and pathways for years to come.

DOI: 10.1038/35015709 
PMID: 10866210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):827-36.

Genomics, gene expression and DNA arrays.

Lockhart DJ(1), Winzeler EA.

Author information: 
(1)Genomics Institute of the Novartis Research Foundation, San Diego, California 
92121, USA.

Experimental genomics in combination with the growing body of sequence
information promise to revolutionize the way cells and cellular processes are
studied. Information on genomic sequence can be used experimentally with
high-density DNA arrays that allow complex mixtures of RNA and DNA to be
interrogated in a parallel and quantitative fashion. DNA arrays can be used for
many different purposes, most prominently to measure levels of gene expression
(messenger RNA abundance) for tens of thousands of genes simultaneously.
Measurements of gene expression and other applications of arrays embody much of
what is implied by the term 'genomics'; they are broad in scope, large in scale, 
and take advantage of all available sequence information for experimental design 
and data interpretation in pursuit of biological understanding.

DOI: 10.1038/35015701 
PMID: 10866209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):823-6.

Protein function in the post-genomic era.

Eisenberg D(1), Marcotte EM, Xenarios I, Yeates TO.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Biology Institute and UCLA-DOE Laboratory of Structural Biology and 
Molecular Medicine, University of California at Los Angeles, 90095-1570, USA.
david@mbi.ucla.edu

Faced with the avalanche of genomic sequences and data on messenger RNA
expression, biological scientists are confronting a frightening prospect: piles
of information but only flakes of knowledge. How can the thousands of sequences
being determined and deposited, and the thousands of expression profiles being
generated by the new array methods, be synthesized into useful knowledge? What
form will this knowledge take? These are questions being addressed by scientists 
in the field known as 'functional genomics'.

DOI: 10.1038/35015694 
PMID: 10866208  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):820-2.

Exploring genome space.

Vukmirovic OG(1), Tilghman SM.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Molecular Biology, Princeton
University, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jul 20;406(6793):234.

The completion of entire genome sequences of many experimental organisms, and the
promise that the human genome will be completed in the next year, find biology
suddenly awash in genome-based data. Scientists are scrambling to develop new
technologies that exploit genome data to ask entirely new kinds of questions
about the complex nature of living cells.

DOI: 10.1038/35015690 
PMID: 10866207  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):814-7.

Atomically defined mechanism for proton transfer to a buried redox centre in a
protein.

Chen K(1), Hirst J, Camba R, Bonagura CA, Stout CD, Burgess BK, Armstrong FA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, University of California,
Irvine 92612, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):110.

The basis of the chemiosmotic theory is that energy from light or respiration is 
used to generate a trans-membrane proton gradient. This is largely achieved by
membrane-spanning enzymes known as 'proton pumps. There is intense interest in
experiments which reveal, at the molecular level, how protons are drawn through
proteins. Here we report the mechanism, at atomic resolution, for a single
long-range electron-coupled proton transfer. In Azotobacter vinelandii ferredoxin
I, reduction of a buried iron-sulphur cluster draws in a solvent proton, whereas 
re-oxidation is 'gated' by proton release to the solvent. Studies of this
'proton-transferring module' by fast-scan protein film voltammetry,
high-resolution crystallography, site-directed mutagenesis and molecular
dynamics, reveal that proton transfer is exquisitely sensitive to the position
and pK of a single amino acid. The proton is delivered through the protein matrix
by rapid penetrative excursions of the side-chain carboxylate of a surface
residue (Asp 15), whose pK shifts in response to the electrostatic charge on the 
iron-sulphur cluster. Our analysis defines the structural, dynamic and energetic 
requirements for proton courier groups in redox-driven proton-pumping enzymes.

DOI: 10.1038/35015610 
PMID: 10866206  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):810-3.

Observations of light-induced structural changes of retinal within rhodopsin.

Gröbner G(1), Burnett IJ, Glaubitz C, Choi G, Mason AJ, Watts A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Oxford, UK.

Photo-isomerization of the 11-cis retinal chromophore activates the mammalian
light-receptor rhodopsin, a representative member of a major superfamily of
transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor proteins (GPCRs) responsible for many
cell signal communication pathways. Although low-resolution (5 A) electron
microscopy studies confirm a seven transmembrane helix bundle as a principal
structural component of rhodopsin, the structure of the retinal within this
helical bundle is not known in detail. Such information is essential for any
theoretical or functional understanding of one of the fastest occurring
photoactivation processes in nature, as well as the general mechanism behind GPCR
activation. Here we determine the three-dimensional structure of 11-cis retinal
bound to bovine rhodopsin in the ground state at atomic level using a new
high-resolution solid-state NMR method. Significant structural changes are
observed in the retinal following activation by light to the photo-activated M(I)
state of rhodopsin giving the all-trans isomer of the chromophore. These changes 
are linked directly to the activation of the receptor, providing an insight into 
the activation mechanism of this class of receptors at a molecular level.

DOI: 10.1038/35015604 
PMID: 10866205  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):807-10.

The lyase activity of the DNA repair protein beta-polymerase protects from
DNA-damage-induced cytotoxicity.

Sobol RW(1), Prasad R, Evenski A, Baker A, Yang XP, Horton JK, Wilson SH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Structural Biology, National Institute of Environmental Health
Sciences, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709-2233, USA.

Small DNA lesions such as oxidized or alkylated bases are repaired by the base
excision repair (BER) pathway. BER includes removal of the damaged base by a
lesion-specific DNA glycosylase, strand scission by apurinic/apyrimidinic
endonuclease, DNA resynthesis and ligation. BER may be further subdivided into
DNA beta-polymerase (beta-pol)-dependent single-nucleotide repair and
beta-pol-dependent or -independent long patch repair subpathways. Two important
enzymatic steps in mammalian single-nucleotide BER are contributed by beta-pol:
DNA resynthesis of the repair patch and lyase removal of 5'-deoxyribose phosphate
(dRP). Fibroblasts from beta-pol null mice are hypersensitive to mono-functional 
DNA-methylating agents, resulting in increases in chromosomal damage, apoptosis
and necrotic cell death. Here we show that only the dRP lyase activity of
beta-pol is required to reverse methylating agent hypersensitivity in beta-pol
null cells. These results indicate that removal of the dRP group is a pivotal
step in BER in vivo. Persistence of the dRP moiety in DNA results in the
hypersensitivity phenotype of beta-pol null cells and may signal downstream
events such as apoptosis and necrotic cell death.

DOI: 10.1038/35015598 
PMID: 10866204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


541. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):804-7.

Two-headed binding of a processive myosin to F-actin.

Walker ML(1), Burgess SA, Sellers JR, Wang F, Hammer JA 3rd, Trinick J, Knight
PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Astbury Centre for Structural Molecular Biology, School of Biomedical
Sciences, University of Leeds, UK.

Myosins are motor proteins in cells. They move along actin by changing shape
after making stereospecific interactions with the actin subunits. As these are
arranged helically, a succession of steps will follow a helical path. However, if
the myosin heads are long enough to span the actin helical repeat (approximately 
36 nm), linear motion is possible. Muscle myosin (myosin II) heads are about 16
nm long, which is insufficient to span the repeat. Myosin V, however, has heads
of about 31 nm that could span 36 nm and thus allow single two-headed molecules
to transport cargo by walking straight. Here we use electron microscopy to show
that while working, myosin V spans the helical repeat. The heads are mostly 13
actin subunits apart, with values of 11 or 15 also found. Typically the structure
is polar and one head is curved, the other straighter. Single particle processing
reveals the polarity of the underlying actin filament, showing that the curved
head is the leading one. The shape of the leading head may correspond to the
beginning of the working stroke of the motor. We also observe molecules attached 
by one head in this conformation.

DOI: 10.1038/35015592 
PMID: 10866203  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):800-4.

The gamma-subunit of the coatomer complex binds Cdc42 to mediate transformation.

Wu WJ(1), Erickson JW, Lin R, Cerione RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine, VMC, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York
14853-6401, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):749, 751-2.

The Ras-related GTP-binding protein Cdc42 is implicated in a variety of
biological activities including the establishment of cell polarity in yeast, the 
regulation of cell morphology, motility and cell-cycle progression in mammalian
cells and the induction of malignant transformation. We identified a Cdc42 mutant
(Cdc42F28L) which binds GTP in the absence of a guanine nucleotide exchange
factor, but still hydrolyses GTP with a turnover number identical to that for
wild-type Cdc42. Expression of this mutant in NIH 3T3 fibroblasts causes cellular
transformation, mimicking many of the characteristics of cells transformed by the
Dbl oncoprotein, a known guanine nucleotide exchange factor for Cdc42. Here we
searched for new Cdc42 targets in an effort to understand how Cdc42 mediates
cellular transformation. We identified the gamma-subunit of the coatomer complex 
(gammaCOP) as a specific binding partner for activated Cdc42. The binding of
Cdc42 to gammaCOP is essential for a transforming signal distinct from those
elicited by Ras.

DOI: 10.1038/35015585 
PMID: 10866202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):797-800.

Excessive placental secretion of neurokinin B during the third trimester causes
pre-eclampsia.

Page NM(1), Woods RJ, Gardiner SM, Lomthaisong K, Gladwell RT, Butlin DJ,
Manyonda IT, Lowry PJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Animal and Microbial Sciences, The University of Reading, UK.

Pre-eclampsia is a principal cause of maternal morbidity and mortality, affecting
5-10% of first pregnancies worldwide. Manifestations include increased blood
pressure, proteinuria, coagulopathy and peripheral and cerebral oedema. Although 
the aetiology and pathogenesis remain to be elucidated, the placenta is
undoubtedly involved, as termination of pregnancy eradicates the disease. Here we
have cloned a complementary DNA from human placental messenger RNA encoding a
precursor protein of 121 amino acids which gives rise to a mature peptide
identical to the neuropeptide neurokinin B (NKB) of other mammalian species. In
female rats, concentrations of NKB several-fold above that of an animal 20 days
into pregnancy caused substantial pressor activity. In human pregnancy, the
expression of NKB was confined to the outer syncytiotrophoblast of the placenta, 
significant concentrations of NKB could be detected in plasma as early as week 9,
and plasma concentrations of NKB were grossly elevated in pregnancy-induced
hypertension and pre-eclampsia. We conclude that elevated levels of NKB in early 
pregnancy may be an indicator of hypertension and pre-eclampsia, and that
treatment with certain neurokinin receptor antagonists may be useful in
alleviating the symptoms.

DOI: 10.1038/35015579 
PMID: 10866201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):792-6.

Ultrasensitive pheromone detection by mammalian vomeronasal neurons.

Leinders-Zufall T(1), Lane AP, Puche AC, Ma W, Novotny MV, Shipley MT, Zufall F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, University of Maryland School of
Medicine, Baltimore 21201, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):616.

The vomeronasal organ (VNO) is a chemoreceptive organ that is thought to
transduce pheromones into electrical responses that regulate sexual, hormonal and
reproductive function in mammals. The characteristics of pheromone signal
detection by vomeronasal neurons remain unclear. Here we use a mouse VNO slice
preparation to show that six putative pheromones evoke excitatory responses in
single vomeronasal neurons, leading to action potential generation and elevated
calcium entry. The detection threshold for some of these chemicals is remarkably 
low, near 10(-11) M, placing these neurons among the most sensitive
chemodetectors in mammals. Using confocal calcium imaging, we map the epithelial 
representation of the pheromones to show that each of the ligands activates a
unique, nonoverlapping subset of vomeronasal neurons located in apical zones of
the epithelium. These neurons show highly selective tuning properties and their
tuning curves do not broaden with increasing concentrations of ligand, unlike
those of receptor neurons in the main olfactory epithelium. These findings
provide a basis for understanding chemical signals that regulate mammalian
communication and sexual behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/35015572 
PMID: 10866200  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):789-92.

A universal pattern of mortality decline in the G7 countries.

Tuljapurkar S(1), Li N, Boe C.

Author information: 
(1)Mountain View Research, Los Altos, California 94204, USA. tulja@mvr.org

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):744-5.

Human lifespan has increased enormously this century. But we remain uncertain
about the forces that reduce mortality, and about the cost implications of ageing
populations and their associated social burden. The poor understanding of the
factors driving mortality decline, and the difficulty of forecasting mortality
are due in part to the pronounced irregularity of annual to decadal mortality
change. Here we examine mortality over five decades in the G7 countries (Canada, 
France, Germany, Italy, Japan, UK, US). In every country over this period,
mortality at each age has declined exponentially at a roughly constant rate. This
trend places a constraint on any theory of society-driven mortality decline, and 
provides a basis for stochastic mortality forecasting. We find that median
forecasts of life expectancy are substantially larger than in existing official
forecasts. In terms of the costs of ageing, we forecast values of the dependency 
ratio (that is, the ratio of people over 65 to working people) in 2050 that are
between 6% (UK) and 40% (Japan) higher than official forecasts.

DOI: 10.1038/35015561 
PMID: 10866199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):787-9.

Female feral fowl eject sperm of subdominant males.

Pizzari T(1), Birkhead TR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal and Plant Sciences, University of Sheffield, UK.
t.pizzari@sheffield.ac.uk

Paternity is often determined by competition between the ejaculates of different 
males. Males can also use particular behaviours or structures to manipulate how
females use sperm. However, the ability of females to bias sperm utilization in
favour of preferred males independently of male manipulation has not been
demonstrated. Females are predicted to respond differentially to the sperm of
different males when the reproductive interests of the sexes differ and when
females are coerced into copulating. Here we show that in female feral fowl most 
copulations are coerced, and that females consistently bias sperm retention in
favour of the preferred male phenotype. Females prefer to copulate with dominant 
males, but when sexually coerced by subordinate males, they manipulate the
behaviour of dominant males to reduce the likelihood of insemination. If this
fails, females differentially eject ejaculates according to male status in the
absence of any male manipulation and preferentially retain the sperm of dominant 
males.

DOI: 10.1038/35015558 
PMID: 10866198  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):784-7.

Unrelated helpers in a social insect.

Queller DC(1), Zacchi F, Cervo R, Turillazzi S, Henshaw MT, Santorelli LA,
Strassmann JE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolution, Rice University, Houston, Texas
22251-1892, USA. queller@rice.edu

High-resolution genetic markers have revolutionized our understanding of
vertebrate mating systems, but have so far yielded few comparable surprises about
kinship in social insects. Here we use microsatellite markers to reveal an
unexpected and unique social system in what is probably the best-studied social
wasp, Polistes dominulus. Social insect colonies are nearly always composed of
close relatives; therefore, non-reproductive helping behaviour can be favoured by
kin selection, because the helpers aid reproductives who share their genes. In P.
dominulus, however, 35% of foundress nestmates are unrelated and gain no such
advantage. The P. dominulus system is unlike all other cases of unrelated social 
insects, because one individual has nearly complete reproductive dominance over
subordinates who could have chosen other reproductive options. The only
significant advantage that subordinates obtain is a chance at later reproduction,
particularly if the queen dies. Thus, P. dominulus societies are functionally
unlike other social insects, but similar to certain vertebrate societies, in
which the unrelated helpers gain through inheritance of a territory or a mate.

DOI: 10.1038/35015552 
PMID: 10866197  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):781-4.

Re-Os isotopic evidence for a lower crustal origin of massif-type anorthosites

Schiellerup H(1), Lambert DD, Prestvik T, Robins B, McBride JS, Larsen RB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Mineral Resources Engineering, Norwegian University 
of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway. henrik.schiellerup@geo.ntnu.no

Massif-type anorthosites are large igneous complexes of Proterozoic age. They are
almost monomineralic, representing vast accumulations of plagioclase with
subordinate pyroxene or olivine and Fe-Ti oxides--the 930-Myr-old Rogaland
anorthosite province in southwest Norway represents one of the youngest known
expressions of such magmatism. The source of the magma and geodynamic setting of 
massif-type anorthosites remain long-standing controversies in Precambrian
geology, with no consensus existing as to the nature of the parental magmas or
whether these magmas primarily originate in the Earth's mantle or crust. At
present, massif-type anorthosites are believed to have crystallized from either
crustally contaminated mantle-derived melts that have fractionated olivine and
pyroxenes at depth or primary aluminous gabbroic to jotunitic melts derived from 
the lower continental crust. Here we report rhenium and osmium isotopic data from
the Rogaland anorthosite province that strongly support a lower crustal source
for the parental magmas. There is no evidence of significantly older crust in
southwest Scandinavia and models invoking crustal contamination of mantle-derived
magmas fail to account for the isotopic data from the Rogaland province. Initial 
osmium and neodymium isotopic values testify to the melting of mafic source rocks
in the lower crust with an age of 1,400-1,550 Myr.

DOI: 10.1038/35015546 
PMID: 10866196 


549. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):778-81.

A larger pool of ozone-forming carbon compounds in urban atmospheres

Lewis AC(1), Carslaw N, Marriott PJ, Kinghorn RM, Morrison P, Lee AL, Bartle KD, 
Pilling MJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemistry, University of Leeds, UK.

Volatile organic compounds play a central role in the processes that generate
both urban photochemical smog and tropospheric ozone. For successful and accurate
prediction of these pollution episodes, identification of the dominant reactive
species within the volatile organic carbon pool is needed. At present, lack of
resolution inherent in single-column chromatographic analysis limits such a
detailed chemical characterization of the complex urban atmosphere. Here we
present an improved method of peak deconvolution from double-column (orthogonal) 
gas chromatography. This has enabled us to isolate and classify more than 500
chemical species of volatile organic compounds in urban air, including over 100
multi-substituted monoaromatic and volatile oxygenated hydrocarbons. We suggest
that previous assessments of reactive carbon species may therefore have
underestimated the contribution made by volatile organic compounds to urban
pollution, particularly for compounds with more than six carbon atoms.
Incorporating these species in predictive models should greatly improve our
understanding of photochemical ozone yields and the formation of harmful
secondary organic aerosols.

DOI: 10.1038/35015540 
PMID: 10866195 


550. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):775-8.

Significant dissipation of tidal energy in the deep ocean inferred from satellite
altimeter data

Egbert GD(1), Ray RD.

Author information: 
(1)College of Oceanic and Atmospheric Sciences, Oregon State University,
Corvallis 97331, USA. egbert@oce.orst.edu

How and where the ocean tides dissipate their energy are long-standing questions 
that have consequences ranging from the history of the Moon to the mixing of the 
oceans. Historically, the principal sink of tidal energy has been thought to be
bottom friction in shallow seas. There has long been suggestive evidence,
however, that tidal dissipation also occurs in the open ocean through the
scattering by ocean-bottom topography of surface tides into internal waves, but
estimates of the magnitude of this possible sink have varied widely. Here we use 
satellite altimeter data from Topex/Poseidon to map empirically the tidal energy 
dissipation. We show that approximately 10(12) watts--that is, 1 TW, representing
25-30% of the total dissipation--occurs in the deep ocean, generally near areas
of rough topography. Of the estimated 2 TW of mixing energy required to maintain 
the large-scale thermohaline circulation of the ocean, one-half could therefore
be provided by the tides, with the other half coming from action on the surface
of the ocean.

DOI: 10.1038/35015531 
PMID: 10866194 


551. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):772-5.

Controlling droplet deposition with polymer additives

Bergeron V V(1), Bonn D, Martin JY, Vovelle L.

Author information: 
(1)Rhodia Recherches, Centre de Recherches Lyon, Saint-Fons, France.
vance.bergeron@rhone-poulenc.com

Controlling the impact of drops onto solid surfaces is important for a wide
variey of coating and deposition processes--for example, the treatment of plants 
with herbicides and pesticides requires precise targeting in order to meet
stringent toxicological regulations. However, the outer wax-like layer of the
leaves is a non-wetting substrate that causes sprayed droplets to rebound; often 
less than 50% of the initial spray is retained by the plant. Although the impact 
and subsequent retraction of non-wetting aqueous drops on a hydrophobic surface
have been the subjects of extensive experimental and theoretical work,
non-newtonian rheological effects have not been considered in any detail. Here we
report that, by adding very small amounts of a flexible polymer to the aqueous
phase, we can inhibit droplet rebound on a hydrophobic surface and markedly
improve deposition without significantly altering the shear viscosity of the
solutions. Our results can be understood by taking into account the non-newtonian
elongational viscosity, which provides a large resistance to drop retraction
after impact, thereby suppressing droplet rebound.

DOI: 10.1038/35015525 
PMID: 10866193 


552. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):769-72.

Reversible electromechanical characteristics of carbon nanotubes under
local-probe manipulation

Tombler TW(1), Zhou C, Alexseyev L, Kong J, Dai H, Liu L, Jayanthi CS, Tang M, Wu
SY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Stanford University, California 94305, USA.

The effects of mechanical deformation on the electrical properties of carbon
nanotubes are of interest given the practical potential of nanotubes in
electromechanical devices, and they have been studied using both theoretical and 
experimental approaches. One recent experiment used the tip of an atomic force
microscope (AFM) to manipulate multi-walled nanotubes, revealing that changes in 
the sample resistance were small unless the nanotubes fractured or the metal-tube
contacts were perturbed. But it remains unclear how mechanical deformation
affects the intrinsic electrical properties of nanotubes. Here we report an
experimental and theoretical elucidation of the electromechanical characteristics
of individual single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWNTs) under local-probe
manipulation. We use AFM tips to deflect suspended SWNTs reversibly, without
changing the contact resistance; in situ electrical measurements reveal that the 
conductance of an SWNT sample can be reduced by two orders of magnitude when
deformed by an AFM tip. Our tight-binding simulations indicate that this effect
is owing to the formation of local sp3 bonds caused by the mechanical pushing
action of the tip.

DOI: 10.1038/35015519 
PMID: 10866192 


553. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):767-9.

Direct observation of the alignment of ferromagnetic spins by antiferromagnetic
spins

Nolting F(1), Scholl A, Stohr J, Seo JW, Fompeyrine J, Siegwart H, Locquet JP,
Anders S, Luning J, Fullerton EE, Toney MF, Scheinfein MR, Padmore HA.

Author information: 
(1)Advanced Light Source, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA. FNolting@lbl.gov

The arrangement of spins at interfaces in a layered magnetic material often has
an important effect on the properties of the material. One example of this is the
directional coupling between the spins in an antiferromagnet and those in an
adjacent ferromagnet, an effect first discovered in 1956 and referred to as
exchange bias. Because of its technological importance for the development of
advanced devices such as magnetic read heads and magnetic memory cells, this
phenomenon has received much attention. Despite extensive studies, however,
exchange bias is still poorly understood, largely due to the lack of techniques
capable of providing detailed information about the arrangement of magnetic
moments near interfaces. Here we present polarization-dependent X-ray magnetic
dichroism spectro-microscopy that reveals the micromagnetic structure on both
sides of a ferromagnetic-antiferromagnetic interface. Images of thin
ferromagnetic Co films grown on antiferromagnetic LaFeO3 show a direct link
between the arrangement of spins in each material. Remanent hysteresis loops,
recorded for individual ferromagnetic domains, show a local exchange bias. Our
results imply that the alignment of the ferromagnetic spins is determined, domain
by domain, by the spin directions in the underlying antiferromagnetic layer.

DOI: 10.1038/35015515 
PMID: 10866191 


554. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):764-7.

Kondo effect in an integer-spin quantum dot

Sasaki S(1), De Franceschi S, Elzerman JM, van der Wiel WG, Eto M, Tarucha S,
Kouwenhoven LP.

Author information: 
(1)NTT Basic Research Laboratories, Kanagawa, Japan.

The Kondo effect--a many-body phenomenon in condensed-matter physics involving
the interaction between a localized spin and free electrons--was discovered in
metals containing small amounts of magnetic impurities, although it is now
recognized to be of fundamental importance in a wide class of correlated electron
systems. In fabricated structures, the control of single, localized spins is of
technological relevance for nanoscale electronics. Experiments have already
demonstrated artificial realizations of isolated magnetic impurities at metallic 
surfaces, nanoscale magnets, controlled transitions between two-electron singlet 
and triplet states, and a tunable Kondo effect in semiconductor quantum dots.
Here we report an unexpected Kondo effect in a few-electron quantum dot
containing singlet and triplet spin states, whose energy difference can be tuned 
with a magnetic field. We observe the effect for an even number of electrons,
when the singlet and triplet states are degenerate. The characteristic energy
scale is much larger than in the ordinary spin-1/2 case.

DOI: 10.1038/35015509 
PMID: 10866190 


555. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):757-63.

The evolutionarily conserved BMP-binding protein Twisted gastrulation promotes
BMP signalling.

Oelgeschläger M(1), Larraín J, Geissert D, De Robertis EM.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Biological Chemistry,
University of California, Los Angeles 90095-1662, USA.

Dorsal-ventral patterning in vertebrate and Drosophila embryos requires a
conserved system of extracellular proteins to generate a positional information
gradient. The components involved include bone morphogenetic proteins (BMP/Dpp), 
a BMP antagonist (Chordin/Short gastrulation; Chd/Sog) and a secreted
metalloproteinase (Xolloid/Tolloid) that cleaves Chd/Sog. Here we describe
Xenopus Twisted gastrulation (xTsg), another member of this signalling pathway.
xTsg is expressed ventrally as part of the BMP-4 synexpression group and encodes 
a secreted BMP-binding protein that is a BMP signalling agonist. The data suggest
a molecular mechanism by which xTsg dislodges latent BMPs bound to Chordin
BMP-binding fragments generated by Xolloid cleavage, providing a permissive
signal that allows high BMP signalling in the embryo. Drosophila Tsg also binds
BMPs and is expressed dorsally, supporting the proposal that the dorsal-ventral
axis was inverted in the course of animal evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/35015500 
PMCID: PMC2292104
PMID: 10866189  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Nature. 2000 Jun 8;405(6787):707-9.

Biological sensing of small field differences by magnetically sensitive chemical 
reactions.

Weaver JC(1), Vaughan TE, Astumian RD.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard-M.I.T. Division of Health Sciences and Technology, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge 02139, USA. jim@hstbme.mit.edu

There is evidence that animals can detect small changes in the Earth's magnetic
field by two distinct mechanisms, one using the mineral magnetite as the primary 
sensor and one using magnetically sensitive chemical reactions. Magnetite
responds by physically twisting, or even reorienting the whole organism in the
case of some bacteria, but the magnetic dipoles of individual molecules are too
small to respond in the same way. Here we assess whether reactions whose rates
are affected by the orientation of reactants in magnetic fields could form the
basis of a biological compass. We use a general model, incorporating biological
components and design criteria, to calculate realistic constraints for such a
compass. This model compares a chemical signal produced owing to magnetic field
effects with stochastic noise and with changes due to physiological temperature
variation. Our analysis shows that a chemically based biological compass is
feasible with its size, for any given detection limit, being dependent on the
magnetic sensitivity of the rate constant of the chemical reaction.

DOI: 10.1038/35015128 
PMID: 10864331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Nature. 2000 Jun 8;405(6787):704-6.

Effects of mechanical forces on maintenance and adaptation of form in trabecular 
bone.

Huiskes R(1), Ruimerman R, van Lenthe GH, Janssen JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, University of Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
rik@orthp.azn.nl

The architecture of trabecular bone, the porous bone found in the spine and at
articulating joints, provides the requirements for optimal load transfer, by
pairing suitable strength and stiffness to minimal weight according to rules of
mathematical design. But, as it is unlikely that the architecture is fully
pre-programmed in the genes, how are the bone cells informed about these rules,
which so obviously dictate architecture? A relationship exists between bone
architecture and mechanical usage--while strenuous exercise increases bone mass, 
disuse, as in microgravity and inactivity, reduces it. Bone resorption cells
(osteoclasts) and bone formation cells (osteoblasts) normally balance bone mass
in a coupled homeostatic process of remodelling, which renews some 25% of
trabecular bone volume per year. Here we present a computational model of the
metabolic process in bone that confirms that cell coupling is governed by
feedback from mechanical load transfer. This model can explain the emergence and 
maintenance of trabecular architecture as an optimal mechanical structure, as
well as its adaptation to alternative external loads.

DOI: 10.1038/35015116 
PMID: 10864330  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Nature. 2000 Jun 8;405(6787):701-4.

Redundant roles for the TFIID and SAGA complexes in global transcription.

Lee TI(1), Causton HC, Holstege FC, Shen WC, Hannett N, Jennings EG, Winston F,
Green MR, Young RA.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142,
USA.

The transcription factors TFIID and SAGA are multi-subunit complexes involved in 
transcription by RNA polymerase II. TFIID and SAGA contain common TATA-binding
protein (TBP)-associated factor (TAF(II)) subunits and each complex contains a
subunit with histone acetyltransferase activity. These observations have raised
questions about whether the functions of the two complexes in vivo are unique or 
overlapping. Here we use genome-wide expression analysis to investigate how
expression of the yeast genome depends on both shared and unique subunits of
these two complexes. We find that expression of most genes requires one or more
of the common TAF(II) subunits, indicating that the functions of TFIID and SAGA
are widely required for gene expression. Among the subunits shared by TFIID and
SAGA are three histone-like TAF(II)s, which have been proposed to form a
sub-complex and mediate a common function in global transcription. Unexpectedly, 
we find that the histone-like TAF(II)s have distinct roles in expression of the
yeast genome. Most importantly, we show that the histone acetylase components of 
TFIID and SAGA (TAF(II)145 and Gcn5) are functionally redundant, indicating that 
expression of a large fraction of yeast genes can be regulated through the action
of either complex.

DOI: 10.1038/35015104 
PMID: 10864329  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Nature. 2000 Jun 8;405(6787):697-700.

Frequent chromosomal translocations induced by DNA double-strand breaks.

Richardson C(1), Jasin M.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Centre and Cornell
University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, New York, New York 10021, USA.

The faithful repair of DNA damage such as chromosomal double-strand breaks (DSBs)
is crucial for genomic integrity. Aberrant repair of these lesions can result in 
chromosomal rearrangements, including translocations, which are associated with
numerous tumours. Models predict that some translocations arise from DSB-induced 
recombination in differentiating lymphoid cell types or from aberrant repair of
DNA damage induced by irradiation or other agents; however, a genetic system to
study the aetiology of these events has been lacking. Here we use a mouse
embryonic stem cell system to examine the role of DNA damage on the formation of 
translocations. We find that two DSBs, each on different chromosomes, are
sufficient to promote frequent reciprocal translocations. The results are in
striking contrast with interchromosomal repair of a single DSB in an analogous
system in which translocations are not recovered. Thus, while interchromosomal
DNA repair does not result in genome instability per se, the presence of two DSBs
in a single cell can alter the spectrum of repair products that are recovered.

DOI: 10.1038/35015097 
PMID: 10864328  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Nature. 2000 Jun 8;405(6787):694-7.

Alpha-haemolysin of uropathogenic E. coli induces Ca2+ oscillations in renal
epithelial cells.

Uhlén P(1), Laestadius A, Jahnukainen T, Söderblom T, Bäckhed F, Celsi G, Brismar
H, Normark S, Aperia A, Richter-Dahlfors A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Women and Child Health, Karolinska Institutet, Astrid Lindgren
Children's Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

Pyelonephritis is one of the most common febrile diseases in children. If not
treated appropriately, it causes irreversible renal damage and accounts for a
large proportion of end stage renal failures. Renal scarring can occur in the
absence of inflammatory cells, indicating that bacteria may have a direct
signalling effect on renal cells. Intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) oscillations
can protect cells from the cytotoxic effects of prolonged increases in
intracellular calcium. However, no pathophysiologically relevant protein that
induces such oscillations has been identified. Here we show that infection by
uropathogenic Escherichia coli induces a constant, low-frequency oscillatory
[Ca2+]i response in target primary rat renal epithelial cells induced by the
secreted RTX (repeats-in-toxin) toxin alpha-haemolysin. The response depends on
calcium influx through L-type calcium channels as well as from internal stores
gated by inositol triphosphate. Internal calcium oscillations induced by
alpha-haemolysin in a renal epithelial cell line stimulated production of
cytokines interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-8. Our findings indicate a novel role for
alpha-haemolysin in pyelonephritis: as an inducer of an oscillating second
messenger response in target cells, which fine-tunes gene expression during the
inflammatory response.

DOI: 10.1038/35015091 
PMID: 10864327  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Nature. 2000 Jun 8;405(6787):689-94.

Photoactivated gamma-secretase inhibitors directed to the active site covalently 
label presenilin 1.

Li YM(1), Xu M, Lai MT, Huang Q, Castro JL, DiMuzio-Mower J, Harrison T, Lellis
C, Nadin A, Neduvelil JG, Register RB, Sardana MK, Shearman MS, Smith AL, Shi XP,
Yin KC, Shafer JA, Gardell SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, Merck Research Laboratories, West Point,
Pennsylvania 19486, USA. yueming_li@merck.com

Cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP) by the beta- and gamma-secretases
generates the amino and carboxy termini, respectively, of the A beta
amyloidogenic peptides A beta40 and A beta42--the major constituents of the
amyloid plaques in the brain parenchyma of Alzheimer's disease patients. There is
evidence that the polytopic membrane-spanning proteins, presenilin 1 and 2 (PS1
and PS2), are important determinants of gamma-secretase activity: mutations in
PS1 and PS2 that are associated with early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease
increase the production of A beta42 (refs 4-6), the more amyloidogenic peptide;
gamma-secretase activity is reduced in neuronal cultures derived from
PS1-deficient mouse embryos; and directed mutagenesis of two conserved aspartates
in transmembrane segments of PS1 inactivates the ability of gamma-secretase to
catalyse processing of APP within its transmembrane domain. It is unknown,
however, whether PS1 (which has little or no homology to any known aspartyl
protease) is itself a transmembrane aspartyl protease or a gamma-secretase
cofactor, or helps to colocalize gamma-secretase and APP. Here we report
photoaffinity labelling of PS1 (and PS2) by potent gamma-secretase inhibitors
that were designed to function as transition state analogue inhibitors directed
to the active site of an aspartyl protease. This observation indicates that PS1
(and PS2) may contain the active site of gamma-secretase. Interestingly, the
intact, single-chain form of wild-type PS1 is not labelled by an
active-site-directed photoaffinity probe, suggesting that intact wild-type PS1
may be an aspartyl protease zymogen.

DOI: 10.1038/35015085 
PMID: 10864326  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Nature. 2000 Jun 8;405(6787):685-9.

Neural synchrony correlates with surface segregation rules.

Castelo-Branco M(1), Goebel R, Neuenschwander S, Singer W.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Hirnforschung, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

Erratum in
    Nature 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):926.

To analyse an image, the visual system must decompose the scene into its relevant
parts. Identifying distinct surfaces is a basic operation in such analysis, and
is believed to precede object recognition. Two superimposed gratings moving in
different directions (plaid stimuli) may be perceived either as two surfaces, one
being transparent and sliding on top of the other (component motion) or as a
single pattern whose direction of motion is intermediate to the component vectors
(pattern motion). The degree of transparency, and hence the perception, can be
manipulated by changing only the luminance of the grating intersections. Here we 
show that neurons in two visual cortical areas--A18 and PMLS--synchronize their
discharges when responding to contours of the same surface but not when
responding to contours belonging to different surfaces. The amplitudes of
responses correspond to previously described rate predictions for component and
pattern motion, but, in contrast to synchrony, failed to reflect the transition
from component to pattern motion induced by manipulating the degree of
transparency. Thus, dynamic changes in synchronization could encode, in a
context-dependent way, relations among simultaneous responses to spatially
superimposed contours and thereby bias their association with distinct surfaces.

DOI: 10.1038/35015079 
PMID: 10864325  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Nature. 2000 Jun 8;405(6787):681-5.

Adhesive force of a single gecko foot-hair.

Autumn K(1), Liang YA, Hsieh ST, Zesch W, Chan WP, Kenny TW, Fearing R, Full RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Lewis and Clark College, Portland, Oregon 97219, USA.

Geckos are exceptional in their ability to climb rapidly up smooth vertical
surfaces. Microscopy has shown that a gecko's foot has nearly five hundred
thousand keratinous hairs or setae. Each 30-130 microm long seta is only
one-tenth the diameter of a human hair and contains hundreds of projections
terminating in 0.2-0.5 microm spatula-shaped structures. After nearly a century
of anatomical description, here we report the first direct measurements of single
setal force by using a two-dimensional micro-electromechanical systems force
sensor and a wire as a force gauge. Measurements revealed that a seta is ten
times more effective at adhesion than predicted from maximal estimates on whole
animals. Adhesive force values support the hypothesis that individual seta
operate by van der Waals forces. The gecko's peculiar behaviour of toe uncurling 
and peeling led us to discover two aspects of setal function which increase their
effectiveness. A unique macroscopic orientation and preloading of the seta
increased attachment force 600-fold above that of frictional measurements of the 
material. Suitably orientated setae reduced the forces necessary to peel the toe 
by simply detaching above a critical angle with the substratum.

DOI: 10.1038/35015073 
PMID: 10864324  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Nature. 2000 Jun 8;405(6787):679-81.

Parasite adaptation to locally common host genotypes.

Lively CM(1), Dybdahl MF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Indiana University, Bloomington 47405-3700, USA.
clively@indiana.edu

According to the Red Queen hypothesis--which states that interactions among
species (such as hosts and parasites) lead to constant natural selection for
adaptation and counter-adaptation--the disproportionate evolutionary success of
parasites on common host genotypes leads to correlated selection for sexual
reproduction and local adaptation by the parasite population. Here we determined 
whether local adaptation is due to disproportionate infection of common host
genotypes, and, if so, whether infection of common host genotypes is due to
commonness per se, or some other aspect of these genotypes. In a reciprocal
cross-inoculation experiment parasites occupying the same geographical area
(sympatric) infected locally common host genotypes significantly more often than 
rare host genotypes, whereas parasites occupying separate geographical areas
(allopatric) showed no such significant difference. A mixed source of parasites
(containing F1 hybrids) also showed no difference in infection between rare and
common host genotypes. These results show that local adaptation results from
parasite tracking of locally common host genotypes, and, as such, a necessary
condition of the Red Queen hypothesis is met.

DOI: 10.1038/35015069 
PMID: 10864323  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Nature. 2000 Jun 8;405(6787):676-9.

Filamentous microfossils in a 3,235-million-year-old volcanogenic massive
sulphide deposit.

Rasmussen B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, University of Western Australia,
Nedlands, Australia. brasmuss@geol.uwa.edu.au

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jun 8;405(6787):625-6.

The record of Archaean microfossils is sparse. Of the few bona fide fossil
assemblages, most are from shallow-water settings, and they are typically
associated with laminated, stromatolitic sedimentary rocks. Microfossils from
deep-sea hydrothermal systems have not been reported in Precambrian rocks (> 544 
million years old), although thermophilic microbes are ubiquitous in modern
sea-floor hydrothermal settings, and apparently have the most ancient lineages.
Here, I report the discovery of pyritic filaments, the probable fossil remains of
thread-like microorganisms, in a 3,235-million-year-old deep-sea volcanogenic
massive sulphide deposit from the Pilbara Craton of Australia. From their mode of
occurrence, the micro-organisms were probably thermophilic chemotropic
prokaryotes, which inhabited sub-sea-floor hydrothermal environments. They
represent the first fossil evidence for microbial life in a Precambrian submarine
thermal spring system, and extend the known range of submarine hydrothermal biota
by more than 2,700 million years. Such environments may have hosted the first
living systems on Earth, consistent with proposals for a thermophilic origin of
life.

DOI: 10.1038/35015063 
PMID: 10864322  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Nature. 2000 Jun 8;405(6787):673-6.

Isotopic evidence for Late Cretaceous plume-ridge interaction at the Hawaiian
hotspot

Keller RA(1), Fisk MR, White WM.

Author information: 
(1)College of Oceanic and Atmospheric Sciences, Oregon State University,
Corvallis 97331, USA. rkeller@oce.orst.edu

When a mantle plume interacts with a mid-ocean ridge, both are noticeably
affected. The mid-ocean ridge can display anomalously shallow bathymetry, excess 
volcanism, thickened crust, asymmetric sea-floor spreading and a plume component 
in the composition of the ridge basalts. The hotspot-related volcanism can be
drawn closer to the ridge, and its geochemical composition can also be affected. 
Here we present Sr-Nd-Pb isotopic analyses of samples from the next-to-oldest
seamount in the Hawaiian hotspot track, the Detroit seamount at 51 degrees N,
which show that, 81 Myr ago, the Hawaiian hotspot produced volcanism with an
isotopic signature indistinguishable from mid-ocean ridge basalt. This
composition is unprecedented in the known volcanism from the Hawaiian hotspot,
but is consistent with the interpretation from plate reconstructions that the
hotspot was located close to a mid-ocean ridge about 80 Myr ago. As the rising
mantle plume encountered the hot, low-viscosity asthenosphere and hot, thin
lithosphere near the spreading centre, it appears to have entrained enough of the
isotopically depleted upper mantle to overwhelm the chemical characteristics of
the plume itself. The Hawaiian hotspot thus joins the growing list of hotspots
that have interacted with a rift early in their history.

DOI: 10.1038/35015057 
PMID: 10864321 


567. Nature. 2000 Jun 8;405(6787):668-73.

Reduced growth of Alaskan white spruce in the twentieth century from
temperature-induced drought stress.

Barber VA(1), Juday GP, Finney BP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Marine Science, and Forest Sciences Department, University of
Alaska Fairbanks, 99775, USA. barber@ims.uaf.edu

The extension of growing season at high northern latitudes seems increasingly
clear from satellite observations of vegetation extent and duration. This
extension is also thought to explain the observed increase in amplitude of
seasonal variations in atmospheric CO2 concentration. Increased plant respiration
and photosynthesis both correlate well with increases in temperature this century
and are therefore the most probable link between the vegetation and CO2
observations. From these observations, it has been suggested that increases in
temperature have stimulated carbon uptake in high latitudes and for the boreal
forest system as a whole. Here we present multi-proxy tree-ring data (ring width,
maximum late-wood density and carbon-isotope composition) from 20 productive
stands of white spruce in the interior of Alaska. The tree-ring records show a
strong and consistent relationship over the past 90 years and indicate that, in
contrast with earlier predictions, radial growth has decreased with increasing
temperature. Our data show that temperature-induced drought stress has
disproportionately affected the most rapidly growing white spruce, suggesting
that, under recent climate warming, drought may have been an important factor
limiting carbon uptake in a large portion of the North American boreal forest. If
this limitation in growth due to drought stress is sustained, the future capacity
of northern latitudes to sequester carbon may be less than currently expected.

DOI: 10.1038/35015049 
PMID: 10864320  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Nature. 2000 Jun 8;405(6787):665-8.

Selection of peptides with semiconductor binding specificity for directed
nanocrystal assembly.

Whaley SR(1), English DS, Hu EL, Barbara PF, Belcher AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, The University of Texas at Austin,
78712, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jun 8;405(6787):626-7.

In biological systems, organic molecules exert a remarkable level of control over
the nucleation and mineral phase of inorganic materials such as calcium carbonate
and silica, and over the assembly of crystallites and other nanoscale building
blocks into complex structures required for biological function. This ability to 
direct the assembly of nanoscale components into controlled and sophisticated
structures has motivated intense efforts to develop assembly methods that mimic
or exploit the recognition capabilities and interactions found in biological
systems. Of particular value would be methods that could be applied to materials 
with interesting electronic or optical properties, but natural evolution has not 
selected for interactions between biomolecules and such materials. However,
peptides with limited selectivity for binding to metal surfaces and metal oxide
surfaces have been successfully selected. Here we extend this approach and show
that combinatorial phage-display libraries can be used to evolve peptides that
bind to a range of semiconductor surfaces with high specificity, depending on the
crystallographic orientation and composition of the structurally similar
materials we have used. As electronic devices contain structurally related
materials in close proximity, such peptides may find use for the controlled
placement and assembly of a variety of practically important materials, thus
broadening the scope for 'bottom-up' fabrication approaches.

DOI: 10.1038/35015043 
PMID: 10864319  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Nature. 2000 Jun 8;405(6787):661-5.

Improving the performance of doped pi-conjugated polymers for use in organic
light-emitting diodes

Gross M(1), Muller DC, Nothofer HG, Scherf U, Neher D, Brauchle C, Meerholz K.

Author information: 
(1)Institut fur Physikalische Chemie, Ludwig-Maximilian-Universitat Munchen,
Germany.

Organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) represent a promising technology for large,
flexible, lightweight, flat-panel displays. Such devices consist of one or
several semiconducting organic layer(s) sandwiched between two electrodes. When
an electric field is applied, electrons are injected by the cathode into the
lowest unoccupied molecular orbital of the adjacent molecules (simultaneously,
holes are injected by the anode into the highest occupied molecular orbital). The
two types of carriers migrate towards each other and a fraction of them recombine
to form excitons, some of which decay radiatively to the ground state by
spontaneous emission. Doped pi-conjugated polymer layers improve the injection of
holes in OLED devices; this is thought to result from the more favourable work
function of these injection layers compared with the more commonly used layer
material (indium tin oxide). Here we demonstrate that by increasing the doping
level of such polymers, the barrier to hole injection can be continuously
reduced. The use of combinatorial devices allows us to quickly screen for the
optimum doping level. We apply this concept in OLED devices with hole-limited
electroluminescence (such as polyfluorene-based systems), finding that it is
possible to significantly reduce the operating voltage while improving the light 
output and efficiency.

DOI: 10.1038/35015037 
PMID: 10864318 


570. Nature. 2000 Jun 8;405(6787):658-61.

Correlated electron emission in multiphoton double ionization

Weber T(1), Giessen H, Weckenbrock M, Urbasch G, Staudte A, Spielberger L,
Jagutzki O, Mergel V V, Vollmer M, Dorner R.

Author information: 
(1)Institut fur Kernphysik, Universitat Frankfurt, Germany.

Electronic correlations govern the dynamics of many phenomena in nature, such as 
chemical reactions and solid state effects, including superconductivity. Such
correlation effects can be most clearly investigated in processes involving
single atoms. In particular, the emission of two electrons from an atom--induced 
by the impact of a single photon, a charged particle or by a short laser
pulse--has become the standard process for studies of dynamical electron
correlations. Atoms and molecules exposed to laser fields that are comparable in 
intensity to the nuclear fields have extremely high probabilities for double
ionization; this has been attributed to electron-electron interaction. Here we
report a strong correlation between the magnitude and the direction of the
momentum of two electrons that are emitted from an argon atom, driven by a
femtosecond laser pulse (at 38 TW cm(-2)). Increasing the laser intensity causes 
the momentum correlation between the electrons to be lost, implying that a
transition in the laser-atom coupling mechanism takes place.

DOI: 10.1038/35015033 
PMID: 10864317 


571. Nature. 2000 Jun 8;405(6787):656-8.

Newly synthesized lithium in the interstellar medium

Knauth DC(1), Federman SR, Lambert DL, Crane P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics & Astronomy, University of Toledo, Ohio 43606, USA.

Astronomical observations of elemental and isotopic abundances provide the means 
to determine the source of elements and to reveal their evolutionary pathways
since the formation of the Galaxy some 15 billion years ago. The abundance of
lithium is particularly interesting because, although some of it is thought to be
primordial, most results from spallation reactions (in which Galactic cosmic rays
break apart larger nuclei in the interstellar medium). Spallation reactions are
crucial for the production of other light elements, such as beryllium and boron, 
so observations of lithium isotopic abundances can be used to test model
predictions for light-element synthesis in general. Here we report observations
of 7Li and 6Li abundances in several interstellar clouds lying in the direction
of the star o Persei. We find the abundance ratio 7Li/6Li to be about 2, which is
significantly lower than the average Solar System value of 12.3 (refs 6, 7). An
abundance ratio of 2 is clear evidence that the observed lithium must have
resulted entirely from spallation, confirming a basic tenet of light-element
synthesis. The total lithium abundance, however, is not enhanced as expected.

DOI: 10.1038/35015028 
PMID: 10864316 


572. Nature. 2000 Jun 8;405(6787):647-55.

Crystal structure of the calcium pump of sarcoplasmic reticulum at 2.6 A
resolution.

Toyoshima C(1), Nakasako M, Nomura H, Ogawa H.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular and Cellular Biosciences, The University of Tokyo,
Japan. ct@iam.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jun 8;405(6787):633-4.

Calcium ATPase is a member of the P-type ATPases that transport ions across the
membrane against a concentration gradient. Here we have solved the crystal
structure of the calcium ATPase of skeletal muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum
(SERCA1a) at 2.6 A resolution with two calcium ions bound in the transmembrane
domain, which comprises ten alpha-helices. The two calcium ions are located side 
by side and are surrounded by four transmembrane helices, two of which are
unwound for efficient coordination geometry. The cytoplasmic region consists of
three well separated domains, with the phosphorylation site in the central
catalytic domain and the adenosine-binding site on another domain. The
phosphorylation domain has the same fold as haloacid dehalogenase. Comparison
with a low-resolution electron density map of the enzyme in the absence of
calcium and with biochemical data suggests that large domain movements take place
during active transport.

DOI: 10.1038/35015017 
PMID: 10864315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Nature. 2000 Jun 8;405(6787):639-46.

Scalar turbulence

Shraiman BI(1), Siggia ED.

Author information: 
(1)Bell Laboratories, Lucent Technologies, Murray Hill, New Jersey 07974, USA.

The advection of a passive substance by a turbulent flow is important in many
natural and engineering settings. The concentration of such a substance can
exhibit complex dynamic behaviour that shows many phenomenological parallels with
the behaviour of the turbulent velocity field. Yet the statistical properties of 
this so-called 'passive scalar' turbulence are decoupled from those of the
underlying velocity field. Passive scalar turbulence has recently yielded to
mathematical analysis, and such progress may ultimately lead to a better
understanding of the still intractable problem of fluid turbulence itself.

DOI: 10.1038/35015000 
PMID: 10864314 


574. Nature. 2000 Jun 1;405(6786):590-3.

Engineering stability in gene networks by autoregulation.

Becskei A(1), Serrano L.

Author information: 
(1)EMBL, Structures & Biocomputing, Heidelberg, Germany.
becskei@embl-heidelberg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jun 1;405(6786):520-1.

The genetic and biochemical networks which underlie such things as homeostasis in
metabolism and the developmental programs of living cells, must withstand
considerable variations and random perturbations of biochemical parameters. These
occur as transient changes in, for example, transcription, translation, and RNA
and protein degradation. The intensity and duration of these perturbations differ
between cells in a population. The unique state of cells, and thus the diversity 
in a population, is owing to the different environmental stimuli the individual
cells experience and the inherent stochastic nature of biochemical processes (for
example, refs 5 and 6). It has been proposed, but not demonstrated, that
autoregulatory, negative feedback loops in gene circuits provide stability,
thereby limiting the range over which the concentrations of network components
fluctuate. Here we have designed and constructed simple gene circuits consisting 
of a regulator and transcriptional repressor modules in Escherichia coli and we
show the gain of stability produced by negative feedback.

DOI: 10.1038/35014651 
PMID: 10850721  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Nature. 2000 Jun 1;405(6786):586-90.

Intraprotein radical transfer during photoactivation of DNA photolyase.

Aubert C(1), Vos MH, Mathis P, Eker AP, Brettel K.

Author information: 
(1)Section de Bioénergétique (CNRS URA 2096), CEA Saclay, Gif-sur-Yvette, France.

Erratum in
    Nature 2000 Oct 19;407(6806):926.

Amino-acid radicals play key roles in many enzymatic reactions. Catalysis often
involves transfer of a radical character within the protein, as in class I
ribonucleotide reductase where radical transfer occurs over 35 A, from a tyrosyl 
radical to a cysteine. It is currently debated whether this kind of long-range
transfer occurs by electron transfer, followed by proton release to create a
neutral radical, or by H-atom transfer, that is, simultaneous transfer of
electrons and protons. The latter mechanism avoids the energetic cost of charge
formation in the low dielectric protein, but it is less robust to structural
changes than is electron transfer. Available experimental data do not clearly
discriminate between these proposals. We have studied the mechanism of
photoactivation (light-induced reduction of the flavin adenine dinucleotide
cofactor) of Escherichia coli DNA photolyase using time-resolved absorption
spectroscopy. Here we show that the excited flavin adenine dinucleotide radical
abstracts an electron from a nearby tryptophan in 30 ps. After subsequent
electron transfer along a chain of three tryptophans, the most remote tryptophan 
(as a cation radical) releases a proton to the solvent in about 300 ns, showing
that electron transfer occurs before proton dissociation. A similar process may
take place in photolyase-like blue-light receptors.

DOI: 10.1038/35014644 
PMID: 10850720  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Nature. 2000 Jun 1;405(6786):583-6.

Recombination signal sequences restrict chromosomal V(D)J recombination beyond
the 12/23 rule.

Bassing CH(1), Alt FW, Hughes MM, D'Auteuil M, Wehrly TD, Woodman BB, Gärtner F, 
White JM, Davidson L, Sleckman BP.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Children's Hospital and Department of
Genetics, Harvard Medical School and The Center for Blood Research, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.

The genes encoding the variable regions of lymphocyte antigen receptors are
assembled from variable (V), diversity (D) and joining (J) gene segments. V(D)J
recombination is initiated by the recombinase activating gene (RAG)-1 and -2
proteins, which introduce DNA double-strand breaks between the V, D and J
segments and their flanking recombination signal sequences (RSSs). Generally
expressed DNA repair proteins then carry out the joining reaction. The conserved 
heptamer and nonamer sequences of the RSSs are separated by non-conserved spacers
of 12 or 23 base pairs (forming 12-RSSs and 23-RSSs). The 12/23 rule, which is
mediated at the level of RAG-1/2 recognition and cutting, specifies that V(D)J
recombination occurs only between a gene segment flanked by a 12-RSS and one
flanked by a 23-RSS. Vbeta segments are appended to DJbeta rearrangements, with
little or no direct Vbeta to Jbeta joining, despite 12/23 compatibility of Vbeta 
23-RSSs and Jbeta12-RSSs. Here we use embryonic stem cells and mice with a
modified T-cell receptor (TCR)beta locus containing only one Dbeta (Dbeta1) gene 
segment and one Jbeta (Jbeta1) gene cluster to show that the 5' Dbeta1 12-RSS,
but not the Jbeta1 12-RSSs, targets rearrangement of a diverse Vbeta repertoire. 
This targeting is precise and position-independent. This additional restriction
on V(D)J recombination has important implications for the regulation of variable 
region gene assembly and repertoire development.

DOI: 10.1038/35014635 
PMID: 10850719  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Nature. 2000 Jun 1;405(6786):579-83.

Peptides accelerate their uptake by activating a ubiquitin-dependent proteolytic 
pathway.

Turner GC(1), Du F, Varshavsky A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena 91125, USA.

Protein degradation by the ubiquitin system controls the intracellular
concentrations of many regulatory proteins. A protein substrate of the ubiquitin 
system is conjugated to ubiquitin through the action of three enzymes, E1, E2 and
E3, with the degradation signal (degron) of the substrate recognized by E3 (refs 
1-3). The resulting multi-ubiquitylated substrate is degraded by the 26S
proteasome. Here we describe the physiological regulation of a
ubiquitin-dependent pathway through allosteric modulation of its E3 activity by
small compounds. Ubr1, the E3 enzyme of the N-end rule pathway (a
ubiquitin-dependent proteolytic system) in Saccharomyces cerevisiae mediates the 
degradation of Cup9, a transcriptional repressor of the peptide transporter Ptr2 
(ref. 5). Ubr1 also targets proteins that have destabilizing amino-terminal
residues. We show that the degradation of Cup9 is allosterically activated by
dipeptides with destabilizing N-terminal residues. In the resulting positive
feedback circuit, imported dipeptides bind to Ubr1 and accelerate the
Ubr1-dependent degradation of Cup9, thereby de-repressing the expression of Ptr2 
and increasing the cell's capacity to import peptides. These findings identify
the physiological rationale for the targeting of Cup9 by Ubr1, and indicate that 
small compounds may regulate other ubiquitin-dependent pathways.

DOI: 10.1038/35014629 
PMID: 10850718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Nature. 2000 Jun 1;405(6786):575-9.

Cyclin D control of growth rate in plants.

Cockcroft CE(1), den Boer BG, Healy JM, Murray JA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, University of Cambridge, UK.

The mechanisms by which plants modulate their growth rate in response to
environmental and developmental conditions are unknown, but are presumed to
involve specialized regions called meristems where cell division is concentrated.
The possible role of cell division in influencing meristem activity and overall
plant growth rate is controversial, with a prevailing view that cell division is 
secondary to higher order meristem controls. Here we show that a reduction in the
length of the cell-cycle G1 phase and faster cell cycling occur when the rate of 
cell division in transgenic tobacco plants is increased by the plant D-type
cyclin CycD2 (ref. 8). The plants have normal cell and meristem sizes, but
elevated overall growth rates, an increased rate of leaf initiation and
accelerated development in all stages from seedling to maturity. We conclude that
cell division is a principal determinant of meristem activity and overall growth 
rate, and propose that modulation of plant growth rate is achieved through
regulation of G1.

DOI: 10.1038/35014621 
PMID: 10850717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Nature. 2000 Jun 1;405(6786):571-5.

An electroneutral sodium/bicarbonate cotransporter NBCn1 and associated sodium
channel.

Choi I(1), Aalkjaer C, Boulpaep EL, Boron WF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Physiology, Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

Two electroneutral, Na+-driven HCO3- transporters, the Na+-driven Cl-/HCO3-
exchanger and the electroneutral Na+/HCO3- cotransporter, have crucial roles in
regulating intracellular pH in a variety of cells, including cardiac myocytes,
vascular smooth-muscle, neurons and fibroblasts; however, it is difficult to
distinguish their Cl- dependence in mammalian cells. Here we report the cloning
of three variants of an electroneutral Na+/HCO3- cotransporter, NBCn1, from rat
smooth muscle. They are 89-92% identical to a human skeletal muscle clone, 55-57%
identical to the electrogenic NBCs and 33-43% identical to the anion exchangers. 
When expressed in Xenopus oocytes, NBCn1-B (which encodes 1,218 amino acids) is
electroneutral, Na+-dependent and HCO3(-)-dependent, but not Cl(-)-dependent.
Oocytes injected with low levels of NBCn1-B complementary RNA exhibit a Na+
conductance that 4,4-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulphonate stimulates slowly
and irreversibly.

DOI: 10.1038/35014615 
PMID: 10850716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Nature. 2000 Jun 1;405(6786):567-71.

Cortical ensemble activity increasingly predicts behaviour outcomes during
learning of a motor task.

Laubach M(1), Wessberg J, Nicolelis MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Duke University Medical Centre, Durham, North
Carolina 27710, USA. laubach@neuro.duke.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jun 1;405(6786):523-5.

When an animal learns to make movements in response to different stimuli, changes
in activity in the motor cortex seem to accompany and underlie this learning. The
precise nature of modifications in cortical motor areas during the initial stages
of motor learning, however, is largely unknown. Here we address this issue by
chronically recording from neuronal ensembles located in the rat motor cortex,
throughout the period required for rats to learn a reaction-time task. Motor
learning was demonstrated by a decrease in the variance of the rats' reaction
times and an increase in the time the animals were able to wait for a trigger
stimulus. These behavioural changes were correlated with a significant increase
in our ability to predict the correct or incorrect outcome of single trials based
on three measures of neuronal ensemble activity: average firing rate, temporal
patterns of firing, and correlated firing. This increase in prediction indicates 
that an association between sensory cues and movement emerged in the motor cortex
as the task was learned. Such modifications in cortical ensemble activity may be 
critical for the initial learning of motor tasks.

DOI: 10.1038/35014604 
PMID: 10850715  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Nature. 2000 Jun 1;405(6786):565-7.

Highly fecund mothers sacrifice offspring survival to maximize fitness.

Einum S(1), Fleming IA.

Author information: 
(1)Norwegian Institute for Nature Research, Tungasletta, Trondheim.
sigurd.einum@ninatrd.ninaniku.no

Why do highly fecund organisms apparently sacrifice offspring size for increased 
numbers when offspring survival generally increases with size? The theoretical
tools for understanding this evolutionary trade-off between number and size of
offspring have developed over the past 25 years; however, the absence of data on 
the relation between offspring size and fitness in highly fecund species, which
would control for potentially confounding variables, has caused such models to
remain largely hypothetical. Here we manipulate egg size, controlling for
maternal trait interactions, and determine the causal consequences of offspring
size in a wild population of Atlantic salmon. The joint effect of egg size on egg
number and offspring survival resulted in stabilizing phenotypic selection for an
optimal size. The optimal egg size differed only marginally from the mean value
observed in the population, suggesting that it had evolved mainly in response to 
selection on maternal rather than offspring fitness. We conclude that
maximization of maternal fitness by sacrificing offspring survival may well be a 
general phenomenon among highly fecund organisms.

DOI: 10.1038/35014600 
PMID: 10850714  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Nature. 2000 Jun 1;405(6786):562-5.

Are lemmings prey or predators?

Turchin P(1), Oksanen L, Ekerholm P, Oksanen T, Henttonen H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Connecticut,
Storrs 06269, USA. Peter.Turchin@UConn.edu

Large oscillations in the populations of Norwegian lemmings have mystified both
professional ecologists and lay public. Ecologists suspect that these
oscillations are driven by a trophic mechanism: either an interaction between
lemmings and their food supply, or an interaction between lemmings and their
predators. If lemming cycles are indeed driven by a trophic interaction, can we
tell whether lemmings act as the resource ('prey') or the consumer ('predator')? 
In trophic interaction models, peaks of resource density generally have a blunt, 
rounded shape, whereas peaks of consumer density are sharp and angular. Here we
have applied several statistical tests to three lemming datasets and contrasted
them with comparable data for cyclic voles. We find that vole peaks are blunt,
consistent with their cycles being driven by the interaction with predators. In
contrast, the shape of lemming peaks is consistent with the hypothesis that
lemmings are functional predators, that is, their cycles are driven by their
interaction with food plants. Our findings suggest that a single mechanism, such 
as interaction between rodents and predators, is unlikely to provide the
'universal' explanation of all cyclic rodent dynamics.

DOI: 10.1038/35014595 
PMID: 10850713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Nature. 2000 Jun 1;405(6786):559-62.

Multiple seismic discontinuities near the base of the transition zone in the
Earth's mantle

Simmons NA(1), Gurrola H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geosciences, Texas Tech University, Lubbock 79409, USA.

The seismologically defined boundary between the transition zone in the Earth's
mantle (410-660 km depth) and the underlying lower mantle is generally
interpreted to result from the breakdown of the gamma-spinel phase of olivine to 
magnesium-perovskite and magnesiowustite. Laboratory measurements of these
transformations of olivine have determined that the phase boundary has a negative
Clapeyron slope and does indeed occur near pressures corresponding to the base of
the transition zone. But a computational study has indicated that, because of the
presence of garnet minerals, multiple seismic discontinuities might exist near a 
depth of 660 km (ref. 4), which would alter the simple negative correlation of
changes in temperature with changes in the depth of the phase boundary. In
particular, garnet minerals undergo exothermic transformations near this depth,
acting to complicate the phase relations and possibly effecting mantle convection
processes in some regions. Here we present seismic evidence that supports the
existence of such multiple transitions near a depth of 660 km beneath southern
California. The observations are consistent with having been generated by garnet 
transformations coupling with the dissociation of the gamma-spinel phase of
olivine. Temperature anomalies calculated from the imaged discontinuity
depths--using Clapeyron slopes determined for the various
transformations--generally match those predicted from an independent P-wave
velocity model of the region.

DOI: 10.1038/35014589 
PMID: 10850712 


584. Nature. 2000 Jun 1;405(6786):555-9.

Old radiocarbon ages in the southwest Pacific Ocean during the last glacial
period and deglaciation

Sikes EL(1), Samson CR, Guilderson TP, Howard WR.

Author information: 
(1)School of Environmental and Marine Sciences and Department of Geology,
University of Auckland, New Zealand. e.sikes@auckland.ac.nz

Marine radiocarbon (14C) dates are widely used for dating oceanic events and as
tracers of ocean circulation, essential components for understanding
ocean-climate interactions. Past ocean ventilation rates have been determined by 
the difference between radiocarbon ages of deep-water and surface-water
reservoirs, but the apparent age of surface waters (currently approximately 400
years in the tropics and approximately 1,200 years in Antarctic waters) might not
be constant through time, as has been assumed in radiocarbon chronologies and
palaeoclimate studies. Here we present independent estimates of surface-water and
deep-water reservoir ages in the New Zealand region since the last glacial
period, using volcanic ejecta (tephras) deposited in both marine and terrestrial 
sediments as stratigraphic markers. Compared to present-day values,
surface-reservoir ages from 11,900 14C years ago were twice as large (800 years) 
and during glacial times were five times as large (2,000 years), contradicting
the assumption of constant surface age. Furthermore, the ages of glacial
deep-water reservoirs were much older (3,000-5,000 years). The increase in
surface-to-deep water age differences in the glacial Southern Ocean suggests that
there was decreased ocean ventilation during this period.

DOI: 10.1038/35014581 
PMID: 10850711 


585. Nature. 2000 Jun 1;405(6786):552-4.

Dynamics of the silicon (111) surface phase transition

Hannon JB(1), Hibino H, Bartelt NC, Swartzentruber BS, Ogino T, Kellogg GL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
15213, USA. jhannon@andrew.cmu.edu

The manner in which phase transformations occur in solids determines important
structural and physical properties of many materials. The main problem in
characterizing the kinetic processes that occur during phase transformations is
the difficulty of observing directly, in real time, the growth of one phase at
the expense of another. Here we use low-energy electron microscopy to study the
real-time kinetics of a phase transformation confined to the silicon (111)
surface. We show that the transformation is governed by the rate at which
material is exchanged between the first layer of the crystal and the surface. In 
bulk phase transformations, the dynamics are usually governed either by the rate 
of diffusion of material to the phase boundaries or by the structural
rearrangement of atoms at the phase boundary. The kinetic process that we have
identified here has no bulk analogue and leads to domain dynamics that are
qualitatively different from those expected for bulk systems.

DOI: 10.1038/35014569 
PMID: 10850710 


586. Nature. 2000 Jun 1;405(6786):550-1.

Absence of thermodynamic phase transition in a model glass former

Santen L(1), Krauth W.

Author information: 
(1)CNRS-Laboratoire de Physique Statistique, Ecole Normale Superieure, Paris,
France.

The glass transition can be viewed simply as the point at which the viscosity of 
a structurally disordered liquid reaches a universal threshold value. But this is
an operational definition that circumvents fundamental issues, such as whether
the glass transition is a purely dynamical phenomenon. If so, ergodicity gets
broken (the system becomes confined to some part of its phase space), but the
thermodynamic properties of the liquid remain unchanged across the transition,
provided they are determined as thermodynamic equilibrium averages over the whole
phase space. The opposite view claims that an underlying thermodynamic phase
transition is responsible for the pronounced slow-down in the dynamics at the
liquid-glass boundary. Such a phase transition would trigger the dynamic
standstill, and then be masked by it. Here we perform Monte Carlo simulations of 
a two-dimensional system of polydisperse hard disks far within its glassy phase. 
The approach allows for non-local moves in a way that preserves
micro-reversibility. We find no evidence for a thermodynamic phase transition up 
to very high densities; the glass is thus indistinguishable from the liquid on
purely thermodynamic grounds.

DOI: 10.1038/35014561 
PMID: 10850709 


587. Nature. 2000 Jun 1;405(6786):546-50.

Acceleration of quantum decay processes by frequent observations

Kofman AG(1), Kurizki G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Physics, The Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot,
Israel. Gershon.Kurizki@weizmann.ac.il

In theory, the decay of any unstable quantum state can be inhibited by
sufficiently frequent measurements--the quantum Zeno effect. Although this
prediction has been tested only for transitions between two coupled, essentially 
stable states, the quantum Zeno effect is thought to be a general feature of
quantum mechanics, applicable to radioactive or radiative decay processes. This
generality arises from the assumption that, in principle, successive observations
can be made at time intervals too short for the system to change appreciably.
Here we show not only that the quantum Zeno effect is fundamentally unattainable 
in radiative or radioactive decay (because the required measurement rates would
cause the system to disintegrate), but also that these processes may be
accelerated by frequent measurements. We find that the modification of the decay 
process is determined by the energy spread incurred by the measurements (as a
result of the time-energy uncertainty relation), and the distribution of states
to which the decaying state is coupled. Whereas the inhibitory quantum Zeno
effect may be feasible in a limited class of systems, the opposite
effect--accelerated decay--appears to be much more ubiquitous.

DOI: 10.1038/35014537 
PMID: 10850708 


588. Nature. 2000 Jun 1;405(6786):544-6.

Rossby waves on the Sun as revealed by solar 'hills'

Kuhn JR(1), Armstrong JD, Bush RI, Scherrer P.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Astronomy, University of Hawaii, Honolulu 96822, USA.
jkuhn@solar.stanford.edn

It is a long-standing puzzle that the Sun's photosphere--its visible
surface--rotates differentially, with the equatorial regions rotating faster than
the poles. It has been suggested that waves analogous to terrestrial Rossby
waves, and known as r-mode oscillations, could explain the Sun's differential
rotation: Rossby waves are seen in the oceans as large-scale (hundreds of
kilometres) variations of sea-surface height (5-cm-high waves), which propagate
slowly either east or west (they could take tens of years to cross the Pacific
Ocean). Calculations show that the solar r-mode oscillations have properties that
should be strongly constrained by differential rotation. Here we report the
detection of 100-m-high 'hills' in the photosphere, spaced uniformly over the
Sun's surface with a spacing of (8.7 +/- 0.6) x 10(4) km. If convection under the
photosphere is organized by the r-modes, the observed corrugated photosphere is a
probable surface manifestation of these solar oscillations.

DOI: 10.1038/35014530 
PMID: 10850707 


589. Nature. 2000 Jun 1;405(6786):537-43.

Crystal structure of an NK cell immunoglobulin-like receptor in complex with its 
class I MHC ligand.

Boyington JC(1), Motyka SA, Schuck P, Brooks AG, Sun PD.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Biology Section, Laboratory of Immunogenetics, National Institute
of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Rockville,
Maryland 20852, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jun 1;405(6786):527-8.

Target cell lysis is regulated by natural killer (NK) cell receptors that
recognize class I MHC molecules. Here we report the crystal structure of the
human immunoglobulin-like NK cell receptor KIR2DL2 in complex with its class I
ligand HLA-Cw3 and peptide. KIR binds in a nearly orthogonal orientation across
the alpha1 and alpha2 helices of Cw3 and directly contacts positions 7 and 8 of
the peptide. No significant conformational changes in KIR occur on complex
formation. The receptor footprint on HLA overlaps with but is distinct from that 
of the T-cell receptor. Charge complementarity dominates the KIR/HLA interface
and mutations that disrupt interface salt bridges substantially diminish binding.
Most contacts in the complex are between KIR and conserved HLA-C residues, but a 
hydrogen bond between Lys 44 of KIR2DL2 and Asn 80 of Cw3 confers the allotype
specificity. KIR contact requires position 8 of the peptide to be a residue
smaller than valine. A second KIR/HLA interface produced an ordered
receptor-ligand aggregation in the crystal which may resemble receptor clustering
during immune synapse formation.

DOI: 10.1038/35014520 
PMID: 10850706  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Nature. 2000 Jun 1;405(6786):533-6.

Inferring the statistical interpretation of quantum mechanics from the classical 
limit

Gottfried K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Nuclear Studies, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853,
USA. kg13@cornell.edu

It is widely believed that the statistical interpretation of quantum mechanics
cannot be inferred from the Schrodinger equation itself, and must be stated as an
additional independent axiom. Here I propose that the situation is not so stark. 
For systems that have both continuous and discrete degrees of freedom (such as
coordinates and spin respectively), the statistical interpretation for the
discrete variables is implied by requiring that the system's gross motion can be 
classically described under circumstances specified by the Schrodinger equation. 
However, this is not a full-fledged derivation of the statistical interpretation 
because it does not apply to the continuous variables of classical mechanics.

DOI: 10.1038/35014500 
PMID: 10850705 


591. Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):486-9.

CTCF mediates methylation-sensitive enhancer-blocking activity at the H19/Igf2
locus.

Hark AT(1), Schoenherr CJ, Katz DJ, Ingram RS, Levorse JM, Tilghman SM.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Molecular Biology, Princeton
University, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):408-9.

The Insulin-like growth factor 2 (Igf2) and H19 genes are imprinted, resulting in
silencing of the maternal and paternal alleles, respectively. This event is
dependent upon an imprinted-control region two kilobases upstream of H19 (refs 1,
2). On the paternal chromosome this element is methylated and required for the
silencing of H19 (refs 2-4). On the maternal chromosome the region is
unmethylated and required for silencing of the Igf2 gene 90 kilobases upstream.
We have proposed that the unmethylated imprinted-control region acts as a
chromatin boundary that blocks the interaction of Igf2 with enhancers that lie 3'
of H19 (refs 5, 6). This enhancer-blocking activity would then be lost when the
region was methylated, thereby allowing expression of Igf2 paternally. Here we
show, using transgenic mice and tissue culture, that the unmethylated
imprinted-control regions from mouse and human H19 exhibit enhancer-blocking
activity. Furthermore, we show that CTCF, a zinc finger protein implicated in
vertebrate boundary function, binds to several sites in the unmethylated
imprinted-control region that are essential for enhancer blocking. Consistent
with our model, CTCF binding is abolished by DNA methylation. This is the first
example, to our knowledge, of a regulated chromatin boundary in vertebrates.

DOI: 10.1038/35013106 
PMID: 10839547  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):482-5.

Methylation of a CTCF-dependent boundary controls imprinted expression of the
Igf2 gene.

Bell AC(1), Felsenfeld G.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive 
and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland
20892-0540, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):408-9.

The expression of the insulin-like growth factor 2 (Igf2) and H19 genes is
imprinted. Although these neighbouring genes share an enhancer, H19 is expressed 
only from the maternal allele, and Igf2 only from the paternally inherited
allele. A region of paternal-specific methylation upstream of H19 appears to be
the site of an epigenetic mark that is required for the imprinting of these
genes. A deletion within this region results in loss of imprinting of both H19
and Igf2 (ref. 5). Here we show that this methylated region contains an element
that blocks enhancer activity. The activity of this element is dependent upon the
vertebrate enhancer-blocking protein CTCF. Methylation of CpGs within the
CTCF-binding sites eliminates binding of CTCF in vitro, and deletion of these
sites results in loss of enhancer-blocking activity in vivo, thereby allowing
gene expression. This CTCF-dependent enhancer-blocking element acts as an
insulator. We suggest that it controls imprinting of Igf2. The activity of this
insulator is restricted to the maternal allele by specific DNA methylation of the
paternal allele. Our results reveal that DNA methylation can control gene
expression by modulating enhancer access to the gene promoter through regulation 
of an enhancer boundary.

DOI: 10.1038/35013100 
PMID: 10839546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):477-82.

ATM phosphorylation of Nijmegen breakage syndrome protein is required in a DNA
damage response.

Wu X(1), Ranganathan V, Weisman DS, Heine WF, Ciccone DN, O'Neill TB, Crick KE,
Pierce KA, Lane WS, Rathbun G, Livingston DM, Weaver DT.

Author information: 
(1)Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):404-5.

Nijmegen breakage syndrome (NBS) is characterized by extreme radiation
sensitivity, chromosomal instability and cancer. The phenotypes are similar to
those of ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) disease, where there is a deficiency
in a protein kinase that is activated by DNA damage, indicating that the Nbs and 
Atm proteins may participate in common pathways. Here we report that Nbs is
specifically phosphorylated in response to gamma-radiation, ultraviolet light and
exposure to hydroxyurea. Phosphorylation of Nbs mediated by gamma-radiation, but 
not that induced by hydroxyurea or ultraviolet light, was markedly reduced in ATM
cells. In vivo, Nbs was phosphorylated on many serine residues, of which S343,
S397 and S615 were phosphorylated by Atm in vitro. At least two of these sites
were underphosphorylated in ATM cells. Inactivation of these serines by mutation 
partially abrogated Atm-dependent phosphorylation. Reconstituting NBS cells with 
a mutant form of Nbs that cannot be phosphorylated at selected, ATM-dependent
serine residues led to a specific reduction in clonogenic survival after
gamma-radiation. Thus, phosphorylation of Nbs by Atm is critical for certain
responses of human cells to DNA damage.

DOI: 10.1038/35013089 
PMID: 10839545  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):473-7.

Functional link between ataxia-telangiectasia and Nijmegen breakage syndrome gene
products.

Zhao S(1), Weng YC, Yuan SS, Lin YT, Hsu HC, Lin SC, Gerbino E, Song MH,
Zdzienicka MZ, Gatti RA, Shay JW, Ziv Y, Shiloh Y, Lee EY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine/Institute of Biotechnology, The University of
Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, 78245-3207, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):404-5.

Ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) and Nijmegen breakage syndrome (NBS) are recessive
genetic disorders with susceptibility to cancer and similar cellular phenotypes. 
The protein product of the gene responsible for A-T, designated ATM, is a member 
of a family of kinases characterized by a carboxy-terminal phosphatidylinositol
3-kinase-like domain. The NBS1 protein is specifically mutated in patients with
Nijmegen breakage syndrome and forms a complex with the DNA repair proteins Rad50
and Mrel1. Here we show that phosphorylation of NBS1, induced by ionizing
radiation, requires catalytically active ATM. Complexes containing ATM and NBS1
exist in vivo in both untreated cells and cells treated with ionizing radiation. 
We have identified two residues of NBS1, Ser 278 and Ser 343 that are
phosphorylated in vitro by ATM and whose modification in vivo is essential for
the cellular response to DNA damage. This response includes S-phase checkpoint
activation, formation of the NBS1/Mrel1/Rad50 nuclear foci and rescue of
hypersensitivity to ionizing radiation. Together, these results demonstrate a
biochemical link between cell-cycle checkpoints activated by DNA damage and DNA
repair in two genetic diseases with overlapping phenotypes.

DOI: 10.1038/35013083 
PMID: 10839544  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):466-72.

Genomic rearrangement in NEMO impairs NF-kappaB activation and is a cause of
incontinentia pigmenti. The International Incontinentia Pigmenti (IP) Consortium.

Smahi A(1), Courtois G, Vabres P, Yamaoka S, Heuertz S, Munnich A, Israël A,
Heiss NS, Klauck SM, Kioschis P, Wiemann S, Poustka A, Esposito T, Bardaro T,
Gianfrancesco F, Ciccodicola A, D'Urso M, Woffendin H, Jakins T, Donnai D,
Stewart H, Kenwrick SJ, Aradhya S, Yamagata T, Levy M, Lewis RA, Nelson DL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Unité de Recherches sur les Handicaps Génétiques de
l'Enfant INSERMU-393, Hopital Necker-Enfants Malades, Paris, France.

Familial incontinentia pigmenti (IP; MIM 308310) is a genodermatosis that
segregates as an X-linked dominant disorder and is usually lethal prenatally in
males. In affected females it causes highly variable abnormalities of the skin,
hair, nails, teeth, eyes and central nervous system. The prominent skin signs
occur in four classic cutaneous stages: perinatal inflammatory vesicles,
verrucous patches, a distinctive pattern of hyperpigmentation and dermal
scarring. Cells expressing the mutated X chromosome are eliminated selectively
around the time of birth, so females with IP exhibit extremely skewed
X-inactivation. The reasons for cell death in females and in utero lethality in
males are unknown. The locus for IP has been linked genetically to the factor
VIII gene in Xq28 (ref. 3). The gene for NEMO (NF-kappaB essential
modulator)/IKKgamma (IkappaB kinase-gamma) has been mapped to a position 200
kilobases proximal to the factor VIII locus. NEMO is required for the activation 
of the transcription factor NF-kappaB and is therefore central to many immune,
inflammatory and apoptotic pathways. Here we show that most cases of IP are due
to mutations of this locus and that a new genomic rearrangement accounts for 80% 
of new mutations. As a consequence, NF-kappaB activation is defective in IP
cells.

DOI: 10.1038/35013114 
PMID: 10839543  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):462-6.

Targeted destabilization of HY5 during light-regulated development of
Arabidopsis.

Osterlund MT(1), Hardtke CS, Wei N, Deng XW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, Yale University, 
New Haven, Connecticut 06520-8104, USA.

Arabidopsis seedlings display contrasting developmental patterns depending on the
ambient light. Seedlings grown in the light develop photomorphogenically,
characterized by short hypocotyls and expanded green cotyledons. In contrast,
seedlings grown in darkness become etiolated, with elongated hypocotyls and dosed
cotyledons on an apical hook. Light signals, perceived by multiple photoreceptors
and transduced to downstream regulators, dictate the extent of photomorphogenic
development in a quantitative manner. Two key downstream components, COP1 and
HY5, act antagonistically in regulating seedling development. HY5 is a bZIP
transcription factor that binds directly to the promoters of light-inducible
genes, promoting their expression and photomorphogenic development. COP1 is a
RING-finger protein with WD-40 repeats whose nuclear abundance is negatively
regulated by light. COP1 interacts directly with HY5 in the nucleus to regulate
its activity negatively. Here we show that the abundance of HY5 is directly
correlated with the extent of photomorphogenic development, and that the COP1-HY5
interaction may specifically target HY5 for proteasome-mediated degradation in
the nucleus.

DOI: 10.1038/35013076 
PMID: 10839542  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):458-62.

Vagus nerve stimulation attenuates the systemic inflammatory response to
endotoxin.

Borovikova LV(1), Ivanova S, Zhang M, Yang H, Botchkina GI, Watkins LR, Wang H,
Abumrad N, Eaton JW, Tracey KJ.

Author information: 
(1)The Picower Institute for Medical Research, Manhasset, New York 11030, USA.
lborovikova@mindspring.com

Vertebrates achieve internal homeostasis during infection or injury by balancing 
the activities of proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory pathways. Endotoxin
(lipopolysaccharide), produced by all gram-negative bacteria, activates
macrophages to release cytokines that are potentially lethal. The central nervous
system regulates systemic inflammatory responses to endotoxin through humoral
mechanisms. Activation of afferent vagus nerve fibres by endotoxin or cytokines
stimulates hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal anti-inflammatory responses. However,
comparatively little is known about the role of efferent vagus nerve signalling
in modulating inflammation. Here, we describe a previously unrecognized,
parasympathetic anti-inflammatory pathway by which the brain modulates systemic
inflammatory responses to endotoxin. Acetylcholine, the principle vagal
neurotransmitter, significantly attenuated the release of cytokines (tumour
necrosis factor (TNF), interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6 and IL-18), but not the
anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10, in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated human
macrophage cultures. Direct electrical stimulation of the peripheral vagus nerve 
in vivo during lethal endotoxaemia in rats inhibited TNF synthesis in liver,
attenuated peak serum TNF amounts, and prevented the development of shock.

DOI: 10.1038/35013070 
PMID: 10839541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):454-8.

Synaptic activity at calcium-permeable AMPA receptors induces a switch in
receptor subtype.

Liu SQ(1), Cull-Candy SG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University College London, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):413-5.

Activity-dependent change in the efficacy of transmission is a basic feature of
many excitatory synapses in the central nervous system. The best understood
postsynaptic modification involves a change in responsiveness of AMPAR
(alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid receptor)-mediated
currents following activation of NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors or
Ca2+-permeable AMPARs. This process is thought to involve alteration in the
number and phosphorylation state of postsynaptic AMPARs. Here we describe a new
form of synaptic plasticity--a rapid and lasting change in the subunit
composition and Ca2+ permeability of AMPARs at cerebellar stellate cell synapses 
following synaptic activity. AMPARs lacking the edited GluR2 subunit not only
exhibit high Ca2+ permeability but also are blocked by intracellular polyamines. 
These properties have allowed us to follow directly the involvement of GluR2
subunits in synaptic transmission. Repetitive synaptic activation of
Ca2+-permeable AMPARs causes a rapid reduction in Ca2+ permeability and a change 
in the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic currents, owing to the incorporation 
of GluR2-containing AMPARs. Our experiments show that activity-induced Ca2+
influx through GluR2-lacking AMPARs controls the targeting of GluR2-containing
AMPARs, implying the presence of a self-regulating mechanism.

DOI: 10.1038/35013064 
PMID: 10839540  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):451-4.

Chromosomal evolution in Saccharomyces.

Fischer G(1), James SA, Roberts IN, Oliver SG, Louis EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Oxford, UK.

The chromosomal speciation model invokes chromosomal rearrangements as the
primary cause of reproductive isolation. In a heterozygous carrier, chromosomes
bearing reciprocal translocations mis-segregate at meiosis, resulting in reduced 
fertility or complete sterility. Thus, chromosomal rearrangements act as a
post-zygotic isolating mechanism. Reproductive isolation in yeast is due to
post-zygotic barriers, as many species mate successfully but the hybrids are
sterile. Reciprocal translocations are thought to be the main form of large-scale
rearrangement since the hypothesized duplication of the whole yeast genome 10(8) 
years ago. To test the chromosomal speciation model in yeast, we have
characterized chromosomal translocations among the genomes of six closely related
species in the Saccharomyces 'sensu stricto' complex. Here we show that
rearrangements have occurred between closely related species, whereas more
distant ones have colinear genomes. Thus, chromosomal rearrangements are not a
prerequisite for speciation in yeast and the rate of formation of translocations 
is not constant. These rearrangements appear to result from ectopic recombination
between Ty elements or other repeated sequences.

DOI: 10.1038/35013058 
PMID: 10839539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):448-50.

Invasion sequence affects predator-prey dynamics in a multi-species interaction.

Sait SM(1), Liu WC, Thompson DJ, Godfray HC, Begon M.

Author information: 
(1)Population and Evolutionary Biology Research Group, School of Biological
Sciences, The University of Liverpool, UK. lesait@liv.ac.uk

Ecologists seek to understand the rules that govern the assembly, coexistence and
persistence of communities of interacting species. There is, however, a variety
of sequences in which a multi-species community can be assembled--unlike more
familiar one- and two-species systems. Ecological systems can exhibit contrasting
dynamics depending on initial conditions, but studies have been focused on simple
communities initiated at different densities, not on multi-species communities
constructed in different sequences. Investigations of permanence and convergence 
in ecological communities have been concerned with the flux of whole species
(presence or absence) but have not addressed the central issues concerning the
dynamics exhibited by individual species in particular interactions. Here we
examine data for replicated three-species systems and demonstrate that the
dynamic trajectories of both a predator and its prey within the system are
determined by the sequence in which it is constructed, and that for one
construction-sequence alternative dynamic patterns are possible.

DOI: 10.1038/35013045 
PMID: 10839538  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


601. Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):445-8.

Slow differential rotation of the Earth's inner core indicated by temporal
changes in scattering

Vidale JE(1), Dodge DA, Earle PS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Space Sciences, and Institute of Geophysics and
Planetary Physics, University of California, Los Angeles 90095, USA.
vidale@ucla.edu

The finding that the Earth's inner core might be rotating faster than the mantle 
has important implications for our understanding of core processes, including the
generation of the Earth's magnetic field. But the reported signal is subtle--a
change of about 0.01 s per year in the separation of two seismic waves with
differing paths through the core. Subsequent studies of such data have generally 
supported the conclusion that differential rotation exists, but the difficulty of
accurately locating historic earthquakes and possible biases induced by strong
lateral variations in structure near the core-mantle boundary have raised doubt
regarding the proposed inner-core motion. Also, a study of free oscillations
constrained the motion to be relatively small compared to previous estimates and 
it has been proposed that the interaction of inner-core boundary topography and
mantle heterogeneity might lock the inner core to the mantle. The recent
detection of seismic waves scattered in the inner core suggests a simple test of 
inner-core motion. Here we compare scattered waves recorded in Montana, USA, from
two closely located nuclear tests at Novaya Zemlya, USSR, in 1971 and 1974. The
data show small but coherent changes in scattering which point toward an
inner-core differential rotation rate of 0.15 degrees per year--consistent with
constraints imposed by the free-oscillation data.

DOI: 10.1038/35013039 
PMID: 10839537 


602. Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):442-5.

Past temperature and delta18O of surface ocean waters inferred from foraminiferal
Mg/Ca ratios.

Elderfield H(1), Ganssen G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Cambridge, UK. he101@esc.cam.ac.uk

Determining the past record of temperature and salinity of ocean surface waters
is essential for understanding past changes in climate, such as those which occur
across glacial-interglacial transitions. As a useful proxy, the oxygen isotope
composition (delta18O) of calcite from planktonic foraminifera has been shown to 
reflect both surface temperature and seawater delta18O, itself an indicator of
global ice volume and salinity. In addition, magnesium/calcium (Mg/Ca) ratios in 
foraminiferal calcite show a temperature dependence due to the partitioning of Mg
during calcification. Here we demonstrate, in a field-based calibration
experiment, that the variation of Mg/Ca ratios with temperature is similar for
eight species of planktonic foraminifera (when accounting for Mg dissolution
effects). Using a multi-species record from the Last Glacial Maximum in the North
Atlantic Ocean we found that past temperatures reconstructed from Mg/Ca ratios
followed the two other palaeotemperature proxies: faunal abundance and alkenone
saturation. Moreover, combining Mg/Ca and delta18O data from the same faunal
assemblage, we show that reconstructed surface water delta18O from all
foraminiferal species record the same glacial-interglacial change--representing
changing hydrography and global ice volume. This reinforces the potential of this
combined technique in probing past ocean-climate interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/35013033 
PMID: 10839536  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):440-2.

Deep convective clouds with sustained supercooled liquid water down to -37.5
degrees C

Rosenfeld D(1), Woodley WL.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Earth Sciences, the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel.
daniel@vms.huji.ac.il

In cirrus and orographic wave clouds, highly supercooled water has been observed 
in small quantities (less than 0.15 g m(-3)). This high degree of supercooling
was attributed to the small droplet size and the lack of ice nuclei at the
heights of these clouds. For deep convective clouds, which have much larger
droplets near their tops and which take in aerosols from near the ground, no such
measurements have hitherto been reported. However, satellite data suggest that
highly supercooled water (down to -38 degrees C) frequently occurs in vigorous
continental convective storms. Here we report in situ measurements in deep
convective clouds from an aircraft, showing that most of the condensed water
remains liquid down to -37.5 degrees C. The droplets reach a median volume
diameter of 17 microm and amount to 1.8 gm(-3), one order of magnitude more than 
previously reported. At slightly colder temperatures only ice was found,
suggesting homogeneous freezing. Because of the poor knowledge of mixed-phase
cloud processes, the simulation of clouds using numerical models is difficult at 
present. Our observations will help to understand these cloud processes, such as 
rainfall, hail, and cloud electrification, together with their implications for
the climate system.

DOI: 10.1038/35013030 
PMID: 10839535 


604. Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):437-40.

Large-scale synthesis of a silicon photonic crystal with a complete
three-dimensional bandgap near 1.5 micrometres

Blanco A(1), Chomski E, Grabtchak S, Ibisate M, John S, Leonard SW, Lopez C,
Meseguer F, Miguez H, Mondia JP, Ozin GA, Toader O, van Driel HM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Photonic technology, using light instead of electrons as the information carrier,
is increasingly replacing electronics in communication and information management
systems. Microscopic light manipulation, for this purpose, is achievable through 
photonic bandgap materials, a special class of photonic crystals in which
three-dimensional, periodic dielectric constant variations controllably prohibit 
electromagnetic propagation throughout a specified frequency band. This can
result in the localization of photons, thus providing a mechanism for controlling
and inhibiting spontaneous light emission that can be exploited for photonic
device fabrication. In fact, carefully engineered line defects could act as
waveguides connecting photonic devices in all-optical microchips, and
infiltration of the photonic material with suitable liquid crystals might produce
photonic bandgap structures (and hence light-flow patterns) fully tunable by an
externally applied voltage. However, the realization of this technology requires 
a strategy for the efficient synthesis of high-quality, large-scale photonic
crystals with photonic bandgaps at micrometre and sub-micrometre wavelengths, and
with rationally designed line and point defects for optical circuitry. Here we
describe single crystals of silicon inverse opal with a complete
three-dimensional photonic bandgap centred on 1.46 microm, produced by growing
silicon inside the voids of an opal template of dose-packed silica spheres that
are connected by small 'necks' formed during sintering, followed by removal of
the silica template. The synthesis method is simple and inexpensive, yielding
photonic crystals of pure silicon that are easily integrated with existing
silicon-based microelectronics.

DOI: 10.1038/35013024 
PMID: 10839534 


605. Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):433-7.

Microdomain patterns from directional eutectic solidification and epitaxy

De Rosa C(1), Park C, Thomas EL, Lotz B.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Chimica, Universita di Napoli, Federico II, Italy.

Creating a regular surface pattern on the nanometre scale is important for many
technological applications, such as the periodic arrays constructed by optical
microlithography that are used as separation media in electrophoresis, and island
structures used for high-density magnetic recording devices. Block copolymer
patterns can also be used for lithography on length scales below 30 nanometres
(refs 3-5). But for such polymers to prove useful for thin-film technologies,
chemically patterned surfaces need to be made substantially defect-free over
large areas, and with tailored domain orientation and periodicity. So far,
control over domain orientation has been achieved by several routes, using
electric fields, temperature gradients, patterned substrates and neutral
confining surfaces. Here we describe an extremely fast process that leads the
formation of two-dimensional periodic thin films having large area and uniform
thickness, and which possess vertically aligned cylindrical domains each
containing precisely one crystalline lamella. The process involves rapid
solidification of a semicrystalline block copolymer from a crystallizable solvent
between glass substrates using directional solidification and epitaxy. The film
is both chemically and structurally periodic, thereby providing new opportunities
for more selective and versatile nanopatterned surfaces.

DOI: 10.1038/35013018 
PMID: 10839533 


606. Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):430-3.

A triplet of differently shaped spin-zero states in the atomic nucleus 186Pb

Andreyev AN(1), Huyse M, Van Duppen P, Weissman L, Ackermann D, Gerl J,
Hessberger FP, Hofmann S, Kleinbohl A, Munzenberg G, Reshitko S, Schlegel C,
Schaffner H, Cagarda P, Matos M, Saro S, Keenan A, Moore C, O'Leary CD, Page RD, 
Taylor M, Kettunen H, Leino M, Lavrentiev A, Wyss R, Heyde K.

Author information: 
(1)Instituut voor Kern- en Stralingsfysica, University of Leuven, Belgium.

Understanding the fundamental excitations of many-fermion systems is of
significant current interest. In atomic nuclei with even numbers of neutrons and 
protons, the low-lying excitation spectrum is generally formed by nucleon pair
breaking and nuclear vibrations or rotations. However, for certain numbers of
protons and neutrons, a subtle rearrangement of only a few nucleons among the
orbitals at the Fermi surface can result in a different elementary mode: a
macroscopic shape change. The first experimental evidence for this phenomenon
came from the observation of shape coexistence in 16O (ref. 4). Other unexpected 
examples came with the discovery of fission isomers and super-deformed nuclei.
Here we find experimentally that the lowest three states in the energy spectrum
of the neutron deficient nucleus 186Pb are spherical, oblate and prolate. The
states are populated by the alpha-decay of a parent nucleus; to identify them, we
combine knowledge of the particular features of this decay with sensitive
measurement techniques (a highly efficient velocity filters with strong
background reduction, and an extremely selective recoil-alpha-electron
coincidence tagging methods). The existence of this apparently unique shape
triplet is permitted only by the specific conditions that are met around this
particular nucleus.

DOI: 10.1038/35013012 
PMID: 10839532 


607. Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):425-9.

Neoproterozoic 'snowball Earth' simulations with a coupled climate/ice-sheet
model.

Hyde WT(1), Crowley TJ, Baum SK, Peltier WR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oceanography, Texas A&M University, College Station 77843-3146, 
USA. hyde@rossby.tamu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):403-4.
    Nature. 2001 Jan 18;409(6818):306.

Ice sheets may have reached the Equator in the late Proterozoic era (600-800 Myr 
ago), according to geological and palaeomagnetic studies, possibly resulting in a
'snowball Earth'. But this period was a critical time in the evolution of
multicellular animals, posing the question of how early life survived under such 
environmental stress. Here we present computer simulations of this unusual
climate stage with a coupled climate/ice-sheet model. To simulate a snowball
Earth, we use only a reduction in the solar constant compared to present-day
conditions and we keep atmospheric CO2 concentrations near present levels. We
find rapid transitions into and out of full glaciation that are consistent with
the geological evidence. When we combine these results with a general circulation
model, some of the simulations result in an equatorial belt of open water that
may have provided a refugium for multicellular animals.

DOI: 10.1038/35013005 
PMID: 10839531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):421-4.

Roles of PPARs in health and disease.

Kersten S(1), Desvergne B, Wahli W.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Biologie Animale, Université de Lausanne, Switzerland.

In developed societies, chronic diseases such as diabetes, obesity,
atherosclerosis and cancer are responsible for most deaths. These ailments have
complex causes involving genetic, environmental and nutritional factors. There is
evidence that a group of closely related nuclear receptors, called peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs), may be involved in these diseases.
This, together with the fact that PPAR activity can be modulated by drugs such as
thiazolidinediones and fibrates, has instigated a huge research effort into
PPARs. Here we present the latest developments in the PPAR field, with particular
emphasis on the physiological function of PPARs during various nutritional
states, and the possible role of PPARs in several chronic diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/35013000 
PMID: 10839530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):372-6.

The crystal structure of the photoprotein aequorin at 2.3 A resolution.

Head JF(1), Inouye S, Teranishi K, Shimomura O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Boston University School of Medicine, Massachusetts 
02118, USA. jfh@medxtal.bu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):291-3.

Aequorin is a calcium-sensitive photoprotein originally obtained from the
jellyfish Aequorea aequorea. Because it has a high sensitivity to calcium ions
and is biologically harmless, aequorin is widely used as a probe to monitor
intracellular levels of free calcium. The aequorin molecule contains four
helix-loop-helix 'EF-hand' domains, of which three can bind calcium. The molecule
also contains coelenterazine as its chromophoric ligand. When calcium is added,
the protein complex decomposes into apoaequorin, coelenteramide and CO2,
accompanied by the emission of light. Apoaequorin can be regenerated into active 
aequorin in the absence of calcium by incubation with coelenterazine, oxygen and 
a thiol agent. Cloning and expression of the complementary DNA for aequorin were 
first reported in 1985 (refs 2, 6), and growth of crystals of the recombinant
protein has been described; however, techniques have only recently been developed
to prepare recombinant aequorin of the highest purity, permitting a full
crystallographic study. Here we report the structure of recombinant aequorin
determined by X-ray crystallography. Aequorin is found to be a globular molecule 
containing a hydrophobic core cavity that accommodates the ligand
coelenterazine-2-hydroperoxide. The structure shows protein components
stabilizing the peroxide and suggests a mechanism by which calcium activation may
occur.

DOI: 10.1038/35012659 
PMID: 10830969  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):368-72.

Translocation step size and mechanism of the RecBC DNA helicase.

Bianco PR(1), Kowalczykowski SC.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Microbiology, University of California at Davis, 95616, USA.

DNA helicases are ubiquitous enzymes that unwind double-stranded DNA. They are a 
diverse group of proteins that move in a linear fashion along a one-dimensional
polymer lattice--DNA--by using a mechanism that couples nucleoside triphosphate
hydrolysis to both translocation and double-stranded DNA unwinding to produce
separate strands of DNA. The RecBC enzyme is a processive DNA helicase that
functions in homologous recombination in Escherichia coli; it unwinds up to 6,250
base pairs per binding event and hydrolyses slightly more than one ATP molecule
per base pair unwound. Here we show, by using a series of gapped oligonucleotide 
substrates, that this enzyme translocates along only one strand of duplex DNA in 
the 3'-->5' direction. The translocating enzyme will traverse, or 'step' across, 
single-stranded DNA gaps in defined steps that are 23 (+/-2) nucleotides in
length. This step is much larger than the amount of double-stranded DNA that can 
be unwound using the free energy derived from hydrolysis of one molecule of ATP, 
implying that translocation and DNA unwinding are separate events. We propose
that the RecBC enzyme both translocates and unwinds by a quantized, two-step,
inchworm-like mechanism that may have parallels for translocation by other linear
motor proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/35012652 
PMID: 10830968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):364-8.

LAG-3 is a putative transcriptional activator in the C. elegans Notch pathway.

Petcherski AG(1), Kimble J.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Biochemistry, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, 53706, USA.

Notch signalling controls growth, differentiation and patterning during normal
animal development; in humans, aberrant Notch signalling has been implicated in
cancer and stroke. The mechanism of Notch signalling is thought to require
cleavage of the receptor in response to ligand binding, movement of the
receptor's intracellular domain to the nucleus, and binding of that intracellular
domain to a CSL (for CBF1, Suppressor of Hairless, LAG-1) protein. Here we
identify LAG-3, a glutamine-rich protein that forms a ternary complex together
with the LAG-1 DNA-binding protein and the receptor's intracellular domain.
Receptors with mutant ankyrin repeats that abrogate signal transduction are
incapable of complex formation both in yeast and in vitro. Using RNA
interference, we find that LAG-3 activity is crucial in Caenorhabditis elegans
for both GLP-1 and LIN-12 signalling. LAG-3 is a potent transcriptional activator
in yeast, and a Myc-tagged LAG-3 is predominantly nuclear in C. elegans. We
propose that GLP-1 and LIN-12 promote signalling by recruiting LAG-3 to target
promoters, where it functions as a transcriptional activator.

DOI: 10.1038/35012645 
PMID: 10830967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):360-4.

Neurotoxicity induces cleavage of p35 to p25 by calpain.

Lee MS(1), Kwon YT, Li M, Peng J, Friedlander RM, Tsai LH.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5) and its neuron-specific activator p35 are
required for neurite outgrowth and cortical lamination. Proteolytic cleavage of
p35 produces p25, which accumulates in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's
disease. Conversion of p35 to p25 causes prolonged activation and mislocalization
of cdk5. Consequently, the p25/cdk5 kinase hyperphosphorylates tau, disrupts the 
cytoskeleton and promotes the death (apoptosis) of primary neurons. Here we
describe the mechanism of conversion of p35 to p25. In cultured primary cortical 
neurons, excitotoxins, hypoxic stress and calcium influx induce the production of
p25. In fresh brain lysates, addition of calcium can stimulate cleavage of p35 to
p25. Specific inhibitors of calpain, a calcium-dependent cysteine protease,
effectively inhibit the calcium-induced cleavage of p35. In vitro, calpain
directly cleaves p35 to release a fragment with relative molecular mass 25,000.
The sequence of the calpain cleavage product corresponds precisely to that of
p25. Application of the amyloid beta-peptide A beta(1-42) induces the conversion 
of p35 to p25 in primary cortical neurons. Furthermore, inhibition of cdk5 or
calpain activity reduces cell death in A beta-treated cortical neurons. These
observations indicate that cleavage of p35 to p25 by calpain may be involved in
the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1038/35012636 
PMID: 10830966  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):354-60.

Blockade of RAGE-amphoterin signalling suppresses tumour growth and metastases.

Taguchi A(1), Blood DC, del Toro G, Canet A, Lee DC, Qu W, Tanji N, Lu Y, Lalla
E, Fu C, Hofmann MA, Kislinger T, Ingram M, Lu A, Tanaka H, Hori O, Ogawa S,
Stern DM, Schmidt AM.

Author information: 
(1)College of Physicians & Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York
10032, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):287-8.

The receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE), a multi-ligand member of
the immunoglobulin superfamily of cell surface molecules, interacts with distinct
molecules implicated in homeostasis, development and inflammation, and certain
diseases such as diabetes and Alzheimer's disease. Engagement of RAGE by a ligand
triggers activation of key cell signalling pathways, such as p21ras, MAP kinases,
NF-kappaB and cdc42/rac, thereby reprogramming cellular properties. RAGE is a
central cell surface receptor for amphoterin, a polypeptide linked to outgrowth
of cultured cortical neurons derived from developing brain. Indeed, the
co-localization of RAGE and amphoterin at the leading edge of advancing neurites 
indicated their potential contribution to cellular migration, and in pathologies 
such as tumour invasion. Here we demonstrate that blockade of RAGE-amphoterin
decreased growth and metastases of both implanted tumours and tumours developing 
spontaneously in susceptible mice. Inhibition of the RAGE-amphoterin interaction 
suppressed activation of p44/p42, p38 and SAP/JNK MAP kinases; molecular effector
mechanisms importantly linked to tumour proliferation, invasion and expression of
matrix metalloproteinases.

DOI: 10.1038/35012626 
PMID: 10830965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):351-4.

Phenotypic suppression of empty spiracles is prevented by buttonhead.

Schöck F(1), Reischl J, Wimmer E, Taubert H, Purnell BA, Jäckle H.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Biophysikalische Chemie, Abt. Molekulare
Entwicklungsbiologie, Göttingen, Germany.

Unlike the trunk segments, the anterior head segments of Drosophila are formed in
the absence of pair-rule and HOX-cluster gene expression, by the activities of
the gap-like genes orthodenticle (otd), empty spiracles (ems) and buttonhead
(btd). The products of these genes are transcription factors, but only EMS has a 
HOX-like homeodomain. Indeed, ems can confer identity to trunk segments when
other HOX-cluster gene activities are absent. In trunk segments of wild-type
embryos, however, ems activity is prevented by phenotypic suppression, in which
more posterior HOX-cluster genes inactivate the more anterior without affecting
transcription or translation. ems is suppressed by all other Hox-cluster genes
and so is placed at the bottom of their hierarchy. Here we show that
misexpression of EMS in the head transforms segment identity in a btd-dependent
manner, that misexpression of BTD in the trunk causes ems-dependent structures to
develop, and that EMS and BTD interact in vitro. The data indicate that this
interaction may allow ems to escape from the bottom of the HOX-cluster gene
hierarchy and cause a dominant switch of homeotic prevalence in the
anterior-posterior direction.

DOI: 10.1038/35012620 
PMID: 10830964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):347-51.

Cross-modal and cross-temporal association in neurons of frontal cortex.

Fuster JM(1), Bodner M, Kroger JK.

Author information: 
(1)Neuropsychiatric Institute and Brain Research Institute, UCLA School of
Medicine, Los Angeles, California 90095-1759, USA. joaquinf@ucla.edu

The prefrontal cortex is essential for the temporal integration of sensory
information in behavioural and linguistic sequences. Such information is commonly
encoded in more than one sense modality, notably sight and sound. Connections
from sensory cortices to the prefrontal cortex support its integrative function. 
Here we present the first evidence that prefrontal cortex cells associate visual 
and auditory stimuli across time. We gave monkeys the task of remembering a tone 
of a certain pitch for 10 s and then choosing the colour associated with it. In
this task, prefrontal cortex cells responded selectively to tones, and most of
them also responded to colours according to the task rule. Thus, their reaction
to a tone was correlated with their subsequent reaction to the associated colour.
This correlation faltered in trials ending in behavioural error. We conclude that
prefrontal cortex neurons are part of integrative networks that represent
behaviourally meaningful cross-modal associations. The orderly and timely
activation of neurons in such networks is crucial for the temporal transfer of
information in the structuring of behaviour, reasoning and language.

DOI: 10.1038/35012613 
PMID: 10830963  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):344-7.

Adaptive plasticity in mate preference linked to differences in reproductive
effort.

Qvarnström A(1), Pärt T, Sheldon BC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Ecology, Evolutionary Biology Centre, Uppsala University,
Sweden. annaq@biomail.ucsd.edu

There is abundant evidence for the existence of marked mate preferences in
natural populations, but the occurrence of within-population variation in mate
preferences has received little attention and is often regarded as nonadaptive
deviation from the optimal norm. Here we show experimentally that the preference 
of female collared flycatchers Ficedula albicollis for male forehead patch size, 
a sexually selected trait, varies with the time of breeding, an environmental
factor with strong effects on reproductive success. Contrary to expectations
based on time-constrained choice models, only late-breeding females prefer males 
with a large patch size. The variation in mate preference matches a seasonal
change in female reproductive success: long-term data reveal a positive
relationship between female reproductive success and male patch size exclusively 
in late breeders. In addition, female reproductive effort, as assessed by clutch 
size, appears to be adjusted relative to both timing of breeding and male
phenotype. We conclude that not only can mate preferences display adaptive
plasticity within populations, but this plasticity can also be linked to
differences in reproductive investment.

DOI: 10.1038/35012605 
PMID: 10830962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):340-4.

Functional diversity governs ecosystem response to nutrient enrichment.

Hulot FD(1), Lacroix G, Lescher-Moutoué F, Loreau M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire d'Ecologie, UMR 7625, Ecole Normale Supérieure, Paris, France.
hulot@biologie.ens.fr

The relationship between species diversity and ecosystem functioning is a central
topic in ecology today. Classical approaches to studying ecosystem responses to
nutrient enrichment have considered linear food chains. To what extent ecosystem 
structure, that is, the network of species interactions, affects such responses
is currently unknown. This severely limits our ability to predict which species
or functional groups will benefit or suffer from nutrient enrichment and to
understand the underlying mechanisms. Here our approach takes ecosystem
complexity into account by considering functional diversity at each trophic
level. We conducted a mesocosm experiment to test the effects of nutrient
enrichment in a lake ecosystem. We developed a model of intermediate complexity, 
which separates trophic levels into functional groups according to size and diet.
This model successfully predicted the experimental results, whereas linear
food-chain models did not. Our model shows the importance of functional diversity
and indirect interactions in the response of ecosystems to perturbations, and
indicates that new approaches are needed for the management of freshwater
ecosystems subject to eutrophication.

DOI: 10.1038/35012591 
PMID: 10830961  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):337-40.

Mesozoic plate-motion history below the northeast Pacific Ocean from seismic
images of the subducted Farallon slab

Bunge HP(1), Grand SP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geosciences, Princeton University, New Jersey 08544, USA.
bunge@princeton.edu

The high-resolution seismic imaging of subducted oceanic slabs has become a
powerful tool for reconstructing palaeogeography. The images can now be
interpreted quantitatively by comparison with models of the general circulation
of the Earth's mantle. Here we use a three-dimensional spherical computer model
of mantle convection to show that seismic images of the subducted Farallon plate 
provide strong evidence for a Mesozoic period of low-angle subduction under North
America. Such a period of low-angle subduction has been invoked independently to 
explain Rocky Mountain uplift far inland from the plate boundary during the
Laramide orogeny. The computer simulations also allow us to locate the largely
unknown Kula-Farallon spreading plate boundary, the location of which is
important for inferring the trajectories of 'suspect' terrain across the Pacific 
basin.

DOI: 10.1038/35012586 
PMID: 10830960 


619. Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):334-7.

Stimulated influences of Lake Agassiz on the climate of central North America
11,000 years ago

Hostetler SW(1), Bartlein PJ, Clark PU, Small EE, Solomon AM.

Author information: 
(1)US Geological Survey, Corvallis, Oregon 97333, USA. steve@ucar.edu

Eleven thousand years ago, large lakes existed in central and eastern North
America along the margin of the Laurentide Ice Sheet. The large-scale North
American climate at this time has been simulated with atmospheric general
circulation models, but these relatively coarse global models do not resolve
potentially important features of the mesoscale circulation that arise from
interactions among the atmosphere, ice sheet, and proglacial lakes. Here we
present simulations of the climate of central and eastern North America 11,000
years ago with a high-resolution, regional climate model nested within a general 
circulation model. The simulated climate is in general agreement with that
inferred from palaeoecological evidence. Our experiments indicate that through
mesoscale atmospheric feedbacks, the annual delivery of moisture to the
Laurentide Ice Sheet was diminished at times of a large, cold Lake Agassiz
relative to periods of lower lake stands. The resulting changes in the mass
balance of the ice sheet may have contributed to fluctuations of the ice margin, 
thus affecting the routing of fresh water to the North Atlantic Ocean. A
retreating ice margin during periods of high lake level may have opened an outlet
for discharge of Lake Agassiz into the North Atlantic. A subsequent advance of
the ice margin due to greater moisture delivery associated with a low lake level 
could have dammed the outlet, thereby reducing discharge to the North Atlantic.
These variations may have been decisive in causing the Younger Dryas cold event.

DOI: 10.1038/35012581 
PMID: 10830959 


620. Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):330-4.

Constraining the atmospheric N2O budget from intramolecular site preference in
N2O isotopomers

Yoshida N(1), Toyoda S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Science and Technology, Interdisciplinary Graduate
School of Science and Engineering, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Yokohama,
Japan. naoyoshi@depe.titech.ac.jp

Nitrous oxide (N2O) is an important trace gas in the atmosphere. It is an active 
greenhouse gas in the troposphere and it also controls ozone concentration in the
stratosphere through nitric oxide production. One way to trace the geochemical
cycle of N2O is by measuring the natural abundance of stable isotopes, namely 15N
and 18O (refs 2-15). Here we report the intramolecular distribution of 15N within
the linear NNO molecule, determined by measuring molecular and fragment ions of
N2O on a modified mass spectrometer. This revealed a preference for 15N at the
central N position, or alpha-site, within N2O isotopomers (isotope-containing
molecules). Moreover, this preference varied significantly throughout the
atmosphere. In the troposphere, low alpha-site preference indicates local
emission of N2O from soils and fossil-fuel combustion, each with distinct
isotopomer signatures, which then mixes with background N2O. In the stratosphere,
on the other hand, loss of N2O is observed as enhanced alpha-site preference for 
15N, due to fractionation during ultraviolet photolysis of N2O. We have
constructed an atmospheric mass balance of N2O, incorporating isotopomer
abundance, which shows that the intramolecular distribution of 15N is a parameter
that has the potential to increase significantly the resolution with which
sources and sinks of N2O can be identified and quantified in the atmosphere.

DOI: 10.1038/35012558 
PMID: 10830958 


621. Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):328-30.

Intercalation of alkylamines into an organic polymer crystal

Matsumoto A(1), Odani T, Sada K, Miyata M, Tashiro K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Chemistry, Faculty of Engineering, Osaka City
University, Osaka, Japan. matsumoto@a-chem.eng.osaka-cu.ac.jp

Organic solid-state synthesis allows formation of products that are difficult or 
impossible to produce by conventional methods. This feature, and the high degree 
of reaction selectivity that can be achieved, is a direct result of the control
over the relative orientation of the reactants afforded by the solid state. But
as the successful development of 'topochemical reactions' requires the careful
design of suitable reactant crystals, the range of both reactions and products
amenable to this approach has been limited. However, recent advances in organic
crystal engineering, particularly the rational design of complex solid
architectures through supramolecular preorganization, have renewed interest in
topochemical reactions. Previously, we have orientated muconate monomers--diene
moieties with a carboxylate group on each end--using long-chain n-alkylammonium
ions, such that the topochemical photopolymerization of the solid-state reactants
produces layered crystals of stereoregular and high-molecular-mass polymers. Here
we show that these polymer crystals are capable of repeated, reversible
intercalation by conversion to the analogous poly(carboxylic acid), followed by
transformation into a number of poly(alkylammonium muconate)s upon addition of
the appropriate amine. Introduction of functional groups into these crystals may 
allow the design of organic solids for applications such as molecular
recognition, separation and catalysis, thereby extending the range and practical 
utility of current intercalation compounds.

DOI: 10.1038/35012550 
PMID: 10830957 


622. Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):325-8.

Optical microscopy using a single-molecule light source

Michaelis J(1), Hettich C, Mlynek J, Sandoghdar V V.

Author information: 
(1)Fachbereich Physik and Optik-Zentrum Konstanz, Universitat Konstanz, Germany.

Rapid progress in science on nanoscopic scales has promoted increasing interest
in techniques of ultrahigh-resolution optical microscopy. The diffraction limit
can be surpassed by illuminating an object in the near field through a
sub-wavelength aperture at the end of a sharp metallic probe. Proposed
modifications of this technique involve replacing the physical aperture by a
nanoscopic active light source. Advances in the spatial and spectral detection of
individual fluorescent molecules, using near-field and far-field methods, suggest
the possibility of using a single molecule as the illumination source. Here we
present optical images taken with a single molecule as a point-like source of
illumination, by combining fluorescence excitation spectroscopy with shear-force 
microscopy. Our single-molecule probe has potential for achieving molecular
resolution in optical microscopy; it should also facilitate controlled studies of
nanometre-scale phenomena (such as resonant energy transfer) with improved
lateral and axial spatial resolution.

DOI: 10.1038/35012545 
PMID: 10830956 


623. Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):322-5.

Thermally fluctuating superconductors in two dimensions

Sachdev S(1), Starykh OA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06520-8120,
USA. subir.sachdev@yale-edu

In many two-dimensional superconducting systems, such as Josephson-junction
arrays, granular superconducting films, and the high-temperature superconductors,
it appears that the electrons bind into Cooper pairs below a pairing temperature 
(T(P)) that is well above the Kosterlitz-Thouless temperature (T(KT)) the
temperature below which there is long-range superconducting order). The electron 
dynamics at temperatures between T(KT) and T(P) involve a complex interplay of
thermal and quantum fluctuations, for which no quantitative theory exists. Here
we report numerical results for this region, by exploiting its proximity to a T =
0 superconductor-insulator quantum phase transition. This quantum critical point 
need not be experimentally accessible for our results to apply. We characterize
the static, thermodynamic properties by a single dimensionless parameter,
gamma(T). Quantitative and universal results are obtained for the frequency
dependence of the conductivity, which are dependent only upon gamma(T) and
fundamental constants of nature.

DOI: 10.1038/35012530 
PMID: 10830955 


624. Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):321-2.

Discovery of a comet by its Lyman-alpha emission

Teemu J(1), Makinen T, Bertaux JL, Laakso H, Pulkkinen T, Summanen T, Kyrola E,
Schmidt W, Quemerais E, Lallement R.

Author information: 
(1)Finnish Meteorological Institute, Geophysical Research, Helsinki.
Teemu.Makinen@fmi.fi

Several searches for near-Earth objects have recently been initiated, as a result
of increased awareness of the hazard of impacts on the Earth. These programs
mainly search for asteroids, so amateur astronomers can still contribute to the
discovery of comets, especially out of the orbital plane of the Solar System. An 
ideal way to search for comets would be to use a spaceborne instrument capable of
imaging the whole sky on a daily basis in a systematic and repeatable way. Such
an instrument already exists on the solar observatory SOHO; it operates at the
Lyman-alpha wavelength of neutral hydrogen, which is the main component of the
emission cloud of a comet. Here we report the discovery, using archival data from
this satellite, of a hitherto unnoticed comet which reached a perihelion of 1.546
a.u. on 26 June 1997. We derive the water production rate of the comet as a
function of time and find that it increases after perihelion, like that of comet 
Halley.

DOI: 10.1038/35012526 
PMID: 10830954 


625. Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):311-9.

The DNA sequence of human chromosome 21.

Hattori M(1), Fujiyama A, Taylor TD, Watanabe H, Yada T, Park HS, Toyoda A, Ishii
K, Totoki Y, Choi DK, Groner Y, Soeda E, Ohki M, Takagi T, Sakaki Y, Taudien S,
Blechschmidt K, Polley A, Menzel U, Delabar J, Kumpf K, Lehmann R, Patterson D,
Reichwald K, Rump A, Schillhabel M, Schudy A, Zimmermann W, Rosenthal A, Kudoh J,
Schibuya K, Kawasaki K, Asakawa S, Shintani A, Sasaki T, Nagamine K, Mitsuyama S,
Antonarakis SE, Minoshima S, Shimizu N, Nordsiek G, Hornischer K, Brant P,
Scharfe M, Schon O, Desario A, Reichelt J, Kauer G, Blocker H, Ramser J, Beck A, 
Klages S, Hennig S, Riesselmann L, Dagand E, Haaf T, Wehrmeyer S, Borzym K,
Gardiner K, Nizetic D, Francis F, Lehrach H, Reinhardt R, Yaspo ML; Chromosome 21
mapping and sequencing consortium.

Author information: 
(1)RIKEN, Genomic Sciences Center, Sagamihara, Japan.

Erratum in
    Nature 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):110.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):283-4.

Chromosome 21 is the smallest human autosome. An extra copy of chromosome 21
causes Down syndrome, the most frequent genetic cause of significant mental
retardation, which affects up to 1 in 700 live births. Several anonymous loci for
monogenic disorders and predispositions for common complex disorders have also
been mapped to this chromosome, and loss of heterozygosity has been observed in
regions associated with solid tumours. Here we report the sequence and gene
catalogue of the long arm of chromosome 21. We have sequenced 33,546,361 base
pairs (bp) of DNA with very high accuracy, the largest contig being 25,491,867
bp. Only three small clone gaps and seven sequencing gaps remain, comprising
about 100 kilobases. Thus, we achieved 99.7% coverage of 21q. We also sequenced
281,116 bp from the short arm. The structural features identified include
duplications that are probably involved in chromosomal abnormalities and repeat
structures in the telomeric and pericentromeric regions. Analysis of the
chromosome revealed 127 known genes, 98 predicted genes and 59 pseudogenes.

DOI: 10.1038/35012518 
PMID: 10830953  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):305-10.

Oceanic Cd/P ratio and nutrient utilization in the glacial Southern Ocean

Elderfield H(1), Rickaby RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Cambridge, UK. he101@esc.cam.ac.uk

During glacial periods, low atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration has been
associated with increased oceanic carbon uptake, particularly in the southern
oceans. The mechanism involved remains unclear. Because ocean productivity is
strongly influenced by nutrient levels, palaeo-oceanographic proxies have been
applied to investigate nutrient utilization in surface water across glacial
transitions. Here we show that present-day cadmium and phosphorus concentrations 
in the global oceans can be explained by a chemical fractionation during particle
formation, whereby uptake of cadmium occurs in preference to uptake of
phosphorus. This allows the reconstruction of past surface water phosphate
concentrations from the cadmium/calcium ratio of planktonic foraminifera. Results
from the Last Glacial Maximum show similar phosphate utilization in the
subantarctic to that of today, but much smaller utilization in the polar Southern
Ocean, in a model that is consistent with the expansion of glacial sea ice and
which can reconcile all proxy records of polar nutrient utilization. By
restricting communication between the ocean and atmosphere, sea ice expansion
also provides a mechanism for reduced CO2 release by the Southern Ocean and lower
glacial atmospheric CO2.

DOI: 10.1038/35012507 
PMID: 10830952 


627. Nature. 2000 May 18;405(6784):299-304.

Lateral gene transfer and the nature of bacterial innovation.

Ochman H(1), Lawrence JG, Groisman EA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona, Tucson 
85721-0088, USA.

Unlike eukaryotes, which evolve principally through the modification of existing 
genetic information, bacteria have obtained a significant proportion of their
genetic diversity through the acquisition of sequences from distantly related
organisms. Horizontal gene transfer produces extremely dynamic genomes in which
substantial amounts of DNA are introduced into and deleted from the chromosome.
These lateral transfers have effectively changed the ecological and pathogenic
character of bacterial species.

DOI: 10.1038/35012500 
PMID: 10830951  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):243-53.

Systematic conservation planning.

Margules CR(1), Pressey RL.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO Wildlife and Ecology, Tropical Forest Research Centre, Atherton,
Queensland, Australia.

The realization of conservation goals requires strategies for managing whole
landscapes including areas allocated to both production and protection. Reserves 
alone are not adequate for nature conservation but they are the cornerstone on
which regional strategies are built. Reserves have two main roles. They should
sample or represent the biodiversity of each region and they should separate this
biodiversity from processes that threaten its persistence. Existing reserve
systems throughout the world contain a biased sample of biodiversity, usually
that of remote places and other areas that are unsuitable for commercial
activities. A more systematic approach to locating and designing reserves has
been evolving and this approach will need to be implemented if a large proportion
of today's biodiversity is to exist in a future of increasing numbers of people
and their demands on natural resources.

DOI: 10.1038/35012251 
PMID: 10821285  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):234-42.

Consequences of changing biodiversity.

Chapin FS 3rd(1), Zavaleta ES, Eviner VT, Naylor RL, Vitousek PM, Reynolds HL,
Hooper DU, Lavorel S, Sala OE, Hobbie SE, Mack MC, Díaz S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Arctic Biology, University of Alaska, Fairbanks 99775, USA.
fschapin@lter.uaf.edu

Human alteration of the global environment has triggered the sixth major
extinction event in the history of life and caused widespread changes in the
global distribution of organisms. These changes in biodiversity alter ecosystem
processes and change the resilience of ecosystems to environmental change. This
has profound consequences for services that humans derive from ecosystems. The
large ecological and societal consequences of changing biodiversity should be
minimized to preserve options for future solutions to global environmental
problems.

DOI: 10.1038/35012241 
PMID: 10821284  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):228-33.

The diversity-stability debate.

McCann KS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

There exists little doubt that the Earth's biodiversity is declining. The Nature 
Conservancy, for example, has documented that one-third of the plant and animal
species in the United States are now at risk of extinction. The problem is a
monumental one, and forces us to consider in depth how we expect ecosystems,
which ultimately are our life-support systems, to respond to reductions in
diversity. This issue--commonly referred to as the diversity-stability debate--is
the subject of this review, which synthesizes historical ideas with recent
advances. Both theory and empirical evidence agree that we should expect declines
in diversity to accelerate the simplification of ecological communities.

DOI: 10.1038/35012234 
PMID: 10821283  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):220-7.

Global patterns in biodiversity.

Gaston KJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal and Plant Sciences, University of Sheffield, UK.
k.j.gaston@sheffield.ac.uk

To a first approximation, the distribution of biodiversity across the Earth can
be described in terms of a relatively small number of broad-scale spatial
patterns. Although these patterns are increasingly well documented, understanding
why they exist constitutes one of the most significant intellectual challenges to
ecologists and biogeographers. Theory is, however, developing rapidly, improving 
in its internal consistency, and more readily subjected to empirical challenge.

DOI: 10.1038/35012228 
PMID: 10821282  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):212-9.

Getting the measure of biodiversity.

Purvis A(1), Hector A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Imperial College, Ascot, Berkshire, UK.

The term 'biodiversity' is a simple contraction of 'biological diversity', and at
first sight the concept is simple too: biodiversity is the sum total of all
biotic variation from the level of genes to ecosystems. The challenge comes in
measuring such a broad concept in ways that are useful. We show that, although
biodiversity can never be fully captured by a single number, study of particular 
facets has led to rapid, exciting and sometimes alarming discoveries.
Phylogenetic and temporal analyses are shedding light on the ecological and
evolutionary processes that have shaped current biodiversity. There is no doubt
that humans are now destroying this diversity at an alarming rate. A vital
question now being tackled is how badly this loss affects ecosystem functioning. 
Although current research efforts are impressive, they are tiny in comparison to 
the amount of unknown diversity and the urgency and importance of the task.

DOI: 10.1038/35012221 
PMID: 10821281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):208-11.

Causes, consequences and ethics of biodiversity.

Tilman D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology, Evolution and Behavior, University of Minnesota, St
Paul 55108, USA. tilman@lter.umn.edu

The existence of so great a diversity of species on Earth remains a mystery, the 
solution to which may also explain why and how biodiversity influences the
functioning of ecosystems. The answer may lie in quantifying the trade-offs that 
organisms face in dealing with the constraints of their environment. Societal
responses to the loss of biodiversity also involve trade-offs, and the
elaboration of these will be essential in developing wiser environmental ethics
and policy.

DOI: 10.1038/35012217 
PMID: 10821280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):203-6.

Disruption of the plant gene MOM releases transcriptional silencing of methylated
genes.

Amedeo P(1), Habu Y, Afsar K, Mittelsten Scheid O, Paszkowski J.

Author information: 
(1)Friedrich Miescher Institute, Basel, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):137-8.

Epigenetic modifications change transcription patterns in multicellular organisms
to achieve tissue-specific gene expression and inactivate alien DNA such as
transposons or transgenes. In plants and animals, DNA methylation is involved in 
heritability and flexibility of epigenetic states, although its function is far
from clear. We have isolated an Arabidopsis gene, MOM, whose product is required 
for the maintenance of transcriptional gene silencing. Mutation of this gene or
depletion of its transcript by expression of antisense RNA reactivates
transcription from several previously silent, heavily methylated loci. Despite
this, the dense methylation at these reactivated loci is maintained even after
nine generations, indicating that transcriptional activity and methylation
pattern are inherited independently. The predicted MOM gene product is a nuclear 
protein of 2,001 amino acids containing a region similar to part of the ATPase
region of the SWI2/SNF2 family, members of which are involved in chromatin
remodelling. MOM is the first known molecular component that is essential for
transcriptional gene silencing and does not affect methylation pattern. Thus, it 
may act downstream of methylation in epigenetic regulation, or be part of a new
pathway that does not require methylation marks.

DOI: 10.1038/35012108 
PMID: 10821279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):200-3.

B and C floral organ identity functions require SEPALLATA MADS-box genes.

Pelaz S(1), Ditta GS, Baumann E, Wisman E, Yanofsky MF.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Cell and Developmental Biology, La Jolla, California 92093-0116,
USA.

Abnormal flowers have been recognized for thousands of years, but only in the
past decade have the mysteries of flower development begun to unfold. Among these
mysteries is the differentiation of four distinct organ types (sepals, petals,
stamens and carpels), each of which may be a modified leaf. A landmark
accomplishment in plant developmental biology is the ABC model of flower organ
identity. This simple model provides a conceptual framework for explaining how
the individual and combined activities of the ABC genes produce the four organ
types of the typical eudicot flower. Here we show that the activities of the B
and C organ-identity genes require the activities of three closely related and
functionally redundant MADS-box genes, SEPALLATA1/2/3 (SEP1/2/3). Triple mutant
Arabidopsis plants lacking the activity of all three SEP genes produce flowers in
which all organs develop as sepals. Thus SEP1/2/3 are a class of organ-identity
genes that is required for development of petals, stamens and carpels.

DOI: 10.1038/35012103 
PMID: 10821278  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):195-200.

ATF-2 has intrinsic histone acetyltransferase activity which is modulated by
phosphorylation.

Kawasaki H(1), Schiltz L, Chiu R, Itakura K, Taira K, Nakatani Y, Yokoyama KK.

Author information: 
(1)Tsukuba Life Science Center, The Institute of Physical and Chemical Research
(RIKEN), Japan.

Transcription factors carry functional domains, which are often physically
distinct, for sequence-specific DNA binding, transcriptional activation and
regulatory functions. The transcription factor ATF-2 is a DNA-binding protein
that binds to cyclic AMP-response elements (CREs), forms a homodimer or
heterodimer with c-Jun, and stimulates CRE-dependent transcription. Here we
report that ATF-2 is a histone acetyltransferase (HAT), which specifically
acetylates histones H2B and H4 in vitro. Motif A, which is located in the HAT
domain, is responsible for the stimulation of CRE-dependent transcription;
moreover, in response to ultraviolet irradiation, phosphorylation of ATF-2 is
accompanied by enhanced HAT activity of ATF-2 and CRE-dependent transcription.
These results indicate that phosphorylation of ATF-2 controls its intrinsic HAT
activity and its action on CRE-dependent transcription. ATF-2 may represent a new
class of sequence-specific factors, which are able to activate transcription by
direct effects on chromatin components.

DOI: 10.1038/35012097 
PMID: 10821277  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):191-5.

Fringe forms a complex with Notch.

Ju BG(1), Jeong S, Bae E, Hyun S, Carroll SB, Yim J, Kim J.

Author information: 
(1)National Creative Research Initiative Center for Genetic Reprogramming,
Institute of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Seoul National University, Korea.

The Fringe protein of Drosophila and its vertebrate homologues function in
boundary determination during pattern formation. Fringe has been proposed to
inhibit Serrate-Notch signalling but to potentiate Delta-Notch signalling. Here
we show that Fringe and Notch form a complex through both the Lin-Notch repeats
and the epidermal growth factor repeats 22-36 (EGF22-36) of Notch when they are
co-expressed. The Abruptex59b (Ax59b) and AxM1 mutations, which are caused by
missense mutations in EGF repeats 24 and 25, respectively, abolish the
Fringe-Notch interaction through EGF22-36, whereas the l(1)N(B) mutation in the
third Lin-Notch repeat of Notch abolishes the interaction through Lin-Notch
repeats. Ax mutations also greatly affect the Notch response to ectopic Fringe in
vivo. Results from in vitro protein mixing experiments and subcellular
colocalization experiments indicate that the Fringe-Notch complex may form before
their secretion. These findings explain how Fringe acts cell-autonomously to
modulate the ligand preference of Notch and why the Fringe-Notch relationship is 
conserved between phyla and in the development of very diverse structures.

DOI: 10.1038/35012090 
PMID: 10821276  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):187-91.

Glutamatergic synapses on oligodendrocyte precursor cells in the hippocampus.

Bergles DE(1), Roberts JD, Somogyi P, Jahr CE.

Author information: 
(1)Vollum Institute, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland 97201, USA.
berglesd@ohsu.edu

Fast excitatory neurotransmission in the central nervous system occurs at
specialized synaptic junctions between neurons, where a high concentration of
glutamate directly activates receptor channels. Low-affinity AMPA
(alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl isoxazole propionic acid) and kainate glutamate
receptors are also expressed by some glial cells, including oligodendrocyte
precursor cells (OPCs). However, the conditions that result in activation of
glutamate receptors on these non-neuronal cells are not known. Here we report
that stimulation of excitatory axons in the hippocampus elicits inward currents
in OPCs that are mediated by AMPA receptors. The quantal nature of these
responses and their rapid kinetics indicate that they are produced by the
exocytosis of vesicles filled with glutamate directly opposite these receptors.
Some of these AMPA receptors are permeable to calcium ions, providing a link
between axonal activity and internal calcium levels in OPCs. Electron microscopic
analysis revealed that vesicle-filled axon terminals make synaptic junctions with
the processes of OPCs in both the young and adult hippocampus. These results
demonstrate the existence of a rapid signalling pathway from pyramidal neurons to
OPCs in the mammalian hippocampus that is mediated by excitatory, glutamatergic
synapses.

DOI: 10.1038/35012083 
PMID: 10821275  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):183-7.

Vanilloid receptor-1 is essential for inflammatory thermal hyperalgesia.

Davis JB(1), Gray J, Gunthorpe MJ, Hatcher JP, Davey PT, Overend P, Harries MH,
Latcham J, Clapham C, Atkinson K, Hughes SA, Rance K, Grau E, Harper AJ, Pugh PL,
Rogers DC, Bingham S, Randall A, Sheardown SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience Research, SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals,
Harlow, UK. John_B_Davis@sbphrd.com

The vanilloid receptor-1 (VR1) is a ligand-gated, non-selective cation channel
expressed predominantly by sensory neurons. VR1 responds to noxious stimuli
including capsaicin, the pungent component of chilli peppers, heat and
extracellular acidification, and it is able to integrate simultaneous exposure to
these stimuli. These findings and research linking capsaicin with nociceptive
behaviours (that is, responses to painful stimuli in animals have led to VR1
being considered as important for pain sensation. Here we have disrupted the
mouse VR1 gene using standard gene targeting techniques. Small diameter dorsal
root ganglion neurons isolated from VR1-null mice lacked many of the capsaicin-, 
acid- and heat-gated responses that have been previously well characterized in
small diameter dorsal root ganglion neurons from various species. Furthermore,
although the VR1-null mice appeared normal in a wide range of behavioural tests, 
including responses to acute noxious thermal stimuli, their ability to develop
carrageenan-induced thermal hyperalgesia was completely absent. We conclude that 
VR1 is required for inflammatory sensitization to noxious thermal stimuli but
also that alternative mechanisms are sufficient for normal sensation of noxious
heat.

DOI: 10.1038/35012076 
PMID: 10821274  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):180-3.

Rewarding effects of opiates are absent in mice lacking the receptor for
substance P.

Murtra P(1), Sheasby AM, Hunt SP, De Felipe C.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Neurosciencias, Universidad Miguel Hernandez, Alicante, Spain.

Modulation of substance P activity offers a radical new approach to the
management of depression, anxiety and stress. The substance P receptor is highly 
expressed in areas of the brain that are implicated in these behaviours, but also
in other areas such as the nucleus accumbens which mediate the motivational
properties of both natural rewards such as food and of drugs of abuse such as
opiates. Here we show a loss of the rewarding properties of morphine in mice with
a genetic disruption of the substance P receptor. The loss was specific to
morphine, as both groups of mice responded when cocaine or food were used as
rewards. The physical response to opiate withdrawal was also reduced in substance
P receptor knockout mice. We conclude that substance P has an important and
specific role in mediating the motivational aspects of opiates and may represent 
a new pharmacological route for the control of drug abuse.

DOI: 10.1038/35012069 
PMID: 10821273  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):178-9.

Infectious parthenogenesis.

Huigens ME(1), Luck RF, Klaassen RH, Maas MF, Timmermans MJ, Stouthamer R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Sciences Wageningen University, The Netherlands.

Parthenogenesis-inducing Wolbachia bacteria are reproductive parasites that cause
infected female wasps to produce daughters without mating. This manipulation of
the host's reproduction enhances the transmission of Wolbachia to future
generations because the bacteria are passed on vertically only from mothers to
daughters. Males are dead ends for cytoplasmically inherited bacteria: they do
not pass them on to their offspring. Vertical transmission of Wolbachia has been 
previously considered to be the main mode of transmission. Here we report
frequent horizontal transmission from infected to uninfected wasp larvae sharing 
a common food source. The transferred Wolbachia are then vertically transmitted
to the new host's offspring. This natural and unexpectedly frequent horizontal
transfer of parthenogensis-inducing Wolbachia intraspecifically has important
implications for the co-evolution of Wolbachia and their host.

DOI: 10.1038/35012066 
PMID: 10821272  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):175-8.

Detection and classification of atmospheric methane oxidizing bacteria in soil.

Bull ID(1), Parekh NR, Hall GH, Ineson P, Evershed RP.

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemistry, University of Bristol, Cantock's Close, UK.

Well-drained non-agricultural soils mediate the oxidation of methane directly
from the atmosphere, contributing 5 to 10% towards the global methane sink.
Studies of methane oxidation kinetics in soil infer the activity of two
methanotrophic populations: one that is only active at high methane
concentrations (low affinity) and another that tolerates atmospheric levels of
methane (high affinity). The activity of the latter has not been demonstrated by 
cultured laboratory strains of methanotrophs, leaving the microbiology of methane
oxidation at atmospheric concentrations unclear. Here we describe a new
pulse-chase experiment using long-term enrichment with 12CH4 followed by
short-term exposure to 13CH4 to isotopically label methanotrophs in a soil from a
temperate forest. Analysis of labelled phospholipid fatty acids (PLFAs) provided 
unambiguous evidence of methane assimilation at true atmospheric concentrations
(1.8-3.6 p.p.m.v.). High proportions of 13C-labelled C18 fatty acids and the
co-occurrence of a labelled, branched C17 fatty acid indicated that a new
methanotroph, similar at the PLFA level to known type II methanotrophs, was the
predominant soil micro-organism responsible for atmospheric methane oxidation.

DOI: 10.1038/35012061 
PMID: 10821271  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):172-5.

Constraints on the composition of the Earth's core from ab initio calculations

Alfe D(1), Gillan MJ, Price GD.

Author information: 
(1)Research School of Geological and Geophysical Sciences, Birkbeck College and
University College London, UK. d.alfe@ucl.ac.uk

Knowledge of the composition of the Earth's core is important for understanding
its melting point and therefore the temperature at the inner-core boundary and
the temperature profile of the core and mantle. In addition, the partitioning of 
light elements between solid and liquid, as the outer core freezes at the
inner-core boundary, is believed to drive compositional convection, which in turn
generates the Earth's magnetic field. It is generally accepted that the liquid
outer core and the solid inner core consist mainly of iron. The outer core,
however, is also thought to contain a significant fraction of light elements,
because its density--as deduced from seismological data and other
measurements--is 6-10 per cent less than that estimated for pure liquid iron.
Similar evidence indicates a smaller but still appreciable fraction of light
elements in the inner core. The leading candidates for the light elements present
in the core are sulphur, oxygen and silicon. Here we obtain a constraint on core 
composition derived from ab initio calculation of the chemical potentials of
light elements dissolved in solid and liquid iron. We present results for the
case of sulphur, which provide strong evidence against the proposal that the
outer core is close to being a binary iron-sulphur mixture.

DOI: 10.1038/35012056 
PMID: 10821270 


644. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):168-72.

Resolving the 'opal paradox' in the Southern Ocean

Pondaven P(1), Ragueneau O, Treguer P, Hauvespre A, Dezileau L, Reyss JL.

Author information: 
(1)Universite de Bretagne Occidentale UMR CNRS 6539, Institut Universitaire
Europeen de la Mer, Place Copernic, Technopole Brest-Iroise, Plouzane, France.
philippe.pondaven@univ-brest.fr

In the Southern Ocean, high accumulation rates of opal--which forms by
precipitation from silica-bearing solutions--have been found in the sediment in
spite of low production rates of biogenic silica and carbon in the overlying
surface waters. This so-called 'opal paradox' is generally attributed to a higher
efficiency of opal preservation in the Southern Ocean than elsewhere. Here we
report biogenic silica production rates, opal rain rates in the water column and 
opal sediment burial rates for the Indian Ocean sector of the Southern Ocean,
which show that the assumed opal paradox is a result of underestimated opal
production rates and overestimated opal accumulation rates. Our data thus
demonstrate that the overall preservation efficiency of biogenic opal in this
region is substantially lower than previously thought, and that it lies within a 
factor of two of the global mean. The comparison of our revised opal preservation
efficiencies for the Southern Ocean with existing values from the equatorial
Pacific Ocean and the North Atlantic Ocean shows that spatial differences in
preservation efficiencies are not the primary reason for the differences in
sedimentary opal accumulation. The reconciliation of surface production rates and
sedimentary accumulation rates may enable the use of biogenic opal in the
reconstruction of palaeo-productivity when the factors that affect the Si/C ratio
are better understood.

DOI: 10.1038/35012046 
PMID: 10821269 


645. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):165-8.

Non-fluorous polymers with very high solubility in supercritical CO2 down to low 
pressures

Sarbu T(1), Styranec T, Beckman EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Chemical Engineering Department, University of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15261,
USA.

Liquid and supercritical carbon dioxide have attracted much interest as
environmentally benign solvents, but their practical use has been limited by the 
need for high CO2 pressures to dissolve even small amounts of polar, amphiphilic,
organometallic, or high-molecular-mass compounds. So-called 'CO2-philes'
efficiently transport insoluble or poorly soluble materials into CO2 solvent,
resulting in the development of a broad range of CO2-based processes, including
homogeneous and heterogeneous polymerization, extraction of proteins and metals, 
and homogeneous catalysis. But as the most effective CO2-philes are expensive
fluorocarbons, such as poly(perfluoroether), the commercialization of otherwise
promising CO2-based processes has met with only limited success. Here we show
that copolymers can act as efficient, non-fluorous CO2-philes if their
constituent monomers are chosen to optimize the balance between the enthalpy and 
entropy of solute-copolymer and copolymer-copolymer interactions. Guided by
heuristic rules regarding these interactions, we have used inexpensive propylene 
and CO2 to synthesize a series of poly(ether-carbonate) copolymers that readily
dissolve in CO2 at low pressures. Even though non-fluorous polymers are generally
assumed to be CO2-phobic, we expect that our design principles can be used to
create a wide range of non-fluorous CO2-philes from low-cost raw materials, thus 
rendering a variety of CO2-based processes economically favourable, particularly 
in cases where recycling of CO2-philes is difficult.

DOI: 10.1038/35012040 
PMID: 10821268 


646. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):163-5.

Relaxation in polymer electrolytes on the nanosecond timescale

Mao G(1), Perea RF, Howells WS, Price DL, Saboungi ML.

Author information: 
(1)Argonne National Laboratory, Illinois 60439, USA.

The relation between mechanical and electrical relaxation in polymer/lithium-salt
complexes is a fascinating and still unresolved problem in condensed-matter
physics, yet has an important bearing on the viability of such materials for use 
as electrolytes in lithium batteries. At room temperature, these materials are
biphasic: they consist of both fluid amorphous regions and salt-enriched
crystalline regions. Ionic conduction is known to occur predominantly in the
amorphous fluid regions. Although the conduction mechanisms are not yet fully
understood, it is widely accepted that lithium ions, coordinated with groups of
ether oxygen atoms on single or perhaps double polymer chains, move through
re-coordination with other oxygen-bearing groups. The formation and disruption of
these coordination bonds must be accompanied by strong relaxation of the local
chain structure. Here we probe the relaxation on a nanosecond timescale using
quasielastic neutron scattering, and we show that at least two processes are
involved: a slow process with a translational character and one or two fast
processes with a rotational character. Whereas the former reflects the
slowing-down of the translational relaxation commonly observed in polyethylene
oxide and other polymer melts, the latter appears to be unique to the polymer
electrolytes and has not (to our knowledge) been observed before. A clear picture
emerges of the lithium cations forming crosslinks between chain segments and
thereby profoundly altering the dynamics of the polymer network.

DOI: 10.1038/35012032 
PMID: 10821267 


647. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):160-3.

Closing the spin gap in the Kondo insulator Ce3Bi4Pt3 at high magnetic fields

Jaime M(1), Movshovich R, Stewart GR, Beyermann WP, Berisso MG, Hundley MF,
Canfield PC, Sarrao JL.

Author information: 
(1)Los Alamos National Laboratory, New Mexico 87545, USA. mjaime@lanl.gov

Kondo insulator materials--such as CeRhAs, CeRhSb, YbB12, Ce3Bi4Pt3 and SmB6--are
3d, 4f and 5f intermetallic compounds that have attracted considerable interest
in recent years. At high temperatures, they behave like metals. But as
temperature is reduced, an energy gap opens in the conduction band at the Fermi
energy and the materials become insulating. This contrasts with other f-electron 
compounds, which are metallic at all temperatures. The formation of the gap in
Kondo insulators has been proposed to be a consequence of hybridization between
the conduction band and the f-electron levels, giving a 'spin' gap. If this is
indeed the case, metallic behaviour should be recovered when the gap is closed by
changing external parameters, such as magnetic field or pressure. Some
experimental evidence suggests that the gap can be closed in SmB6 (refs 5, 8) and
YbB12 (ref. 9). Here we present specific-heat measurements of Ce3Bi4Pt3 in d.c.
and pulsed magnetic fields up to 60 tesla. Numerical results and the analysis of 
our data using the Coqblin-Schrieffer model demonstrate unambiguously a
field-induced insulator-to-metal transition.

DOI: 10.1038/35012027 
PMID: 10821266 


648. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):158-60.

Proximate humid and dry regions in Jupiter's atmosphere indicate complex local
meteorology.

Roos-Serote M(1), Vasavada AR, Kamp L, Drossart P, Irwin P, Nixon C, Carlson RW.

Author information: 
(1)Observatório Astronómico de Lisboa, Tapada da Ajuda, Lisbon, Portugal.
roos@oal.ul.pt

Models of Jupiter's formation and structure predict that its atmosphere is
enriched in oxygen, relative to the Sun, and that consequently water clouds
should be present globally near the 5-bar pressure level. Past attempts to
confirm these predictions have led to contradictory results; in particular, the
Galileo probe revealed a very dry atmosphere at the entry site, with no
significant clouds at depths exceeding the 2-bar level. Although the entry site
was known to be relatively cloud-free, the contrast between the observed local
dryness and the expected global wetness was surprising. Here we analyse
near-infrared (around 5 microm) observations of Jupiter, a spectral region that
can reveal the water vapour abundance and vertical cloud structure in the
troposphere. We find that humid and extremely dry regions exist in close
proximity, and that some humid regions are spatially correlated with bright
convective clouds extending from the deep water clouds to the visible atmosphere.

DOI: 10.1038/35012023 
PMID: 10821265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):156-8.

Cosmic gamma-ray background from structure formation in the intergalactic medium

Loeb A(1), Waxman E.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138,
USA. aloeb@cfa.harvard.edu

The Universe is filled with a diffuse background of gamma-ray radiation, the
origin of which remains one of the unsolved puzzles of cosmology. Less than
one-quarter of the gamma-ray flux can be attributed to unresolved discrete
sources, such as active galactic nuclei; the remainder appears to constitute a
truly diffuse background. Here we show that the shock waves induced by gravity in
the gas of the intergalactic medium, during the formation of large-scale
structures like filaments and sheets of galaxies, produce a population of highly 
relativistic electrons. These electrons scatter a small fraction of the cosmic
microwave background photons in the local Universe up to gamma-ray energies,
thereby providing the gamma-ray background. The predicted diffuse flux agrees
with the observed background across more than four orders of magnitude in photon 
energy, and the model predicts that the gamma-ray background, though generated
locally, is isotropic to better than five per cent on angular scales larger than 
a degree. Moreover, the agreement between the predicted and observed background
fluxes implies a mean cosmological density of baryons that is consistent with Big
Bang nucleosynthesis.

DOI: 10.1038/35012018 
PMID: 10821264 


650. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):149-55.

Prestin is the motor protein of cochlear outer hair cells.

Zheng J(1), Shen W, He DZ, Long KB, Madison LD, Dallos P.

Author information: 
(1)The Hugh Knowles Center, Department of Neurobiology and Physiology,
Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):130-1, 133.

The outer and inner hair cells of the mammalian cochlea perform different
functions. In response to changes in membrane potential, the cylindrical outer
hair cell rapidly alters its length and stiffness. These mechanical changes,
driven by putative molecular motors, are assumed to produce amplification of
vibrations in the cochlea that are transduced by inner hair cells. Here we have
identified an abundant complementary DNA from a gene, designated Prestin, which
is specifically expressed in outer hair cells. Regions of the encoded protein
show moderate sequence similarity to pendrin and related sulphate/anion transport
proteins. Voltage-induced shape changes can be elicited in cultured human kidney 
cells that express prestin. The mechanical response of outer hair cells to
voltage change is accompanied by a 'gating current', which is manifested as
nonlinear capacitance. We also demonstrate this nonlinear capacitance in
transfected kidney cells. We conclude that prestin is the motor protein of the
cochlear outer hair cell.

DOI: 10.1038/35012009 
PMID: 10821263  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Nature. 2000 May 11;405(6783):143-8.

Detection of weak gravitational lensing distortions of distant galaxies by cosmic
dark matter at large scales

Wittman DM(1), Tyson JA, Kirkman D, Dell'Antonio I I, Bernstein G.

Author information: 
(1)Bell Laboratories, Lucent Technologies, Murray Hill, New Jersey 07574, USA.
wittman@physics.bell-labs.com

Most of the matter in the Universe is not luminous, and can be observed only
through its gravitational influence on the appearance of luminous matter. Weak
gravitational lensing is a technique that uses the distortions of the images of
distant galaxies as a tracer of dark matter: such distortions are induced as the 
light passes through large-scale distributions of dark matter in the foreground. 
The patterns of the induced distortions reflect the density of mass along the
line of sight and its distribution, and the resulting 'cosmic shear' can be used 
to distinguish between alternative cosmologies. But previous attempts to measure 
this effect have been inconclusive. Here we report the detection of cosmic shear 
on angular scales of up to half a degree using 145,000 galaxies and along three
separate lines of sight. We find that the dark matter is distributed in a manner 
consistent with either an open universe, or a flat universe that is dominated by 
a cosmological constant. Our results are inconsistent with the standard
cold-dark-matter model.

DOI: 10.1038/35012001 
PMID: 10821262 


652. Nature. 2000 May 4;405(6782):97-101.

Structural insights into the stereochemistry of the cyclooxygenase reaction.

Kiefer JR(1), Pawlitz JL, Moreland KT, Stegeman RA, Hood WF, Gierse JK, Stevens
AM, Goodwin DC, Rowlinson SW, Marnett LJ, Stallings WC, Kurumbail RG.

Author information: 
(1)Searle Discovery Research, Monsanto Company, St Louis, Missouri 63198, USA.

Cyclooxygenases are bifunctional enzymes that catalyse the first committed step
in the synthesis of prostaglandins, thromboxanes and other eicosanoids. The two
known cyclooxygenases isoforms share a high degree of amino-acid sequence
similarity, structural topology and an identical catalytic mechanism.
Cyclooxygenase enzymes catalyse two sequential reactions in spatially distinct,
but mechanistically coupled active sites. The initial cyclooxygenase reaction
converts arachidonic acid (which is achiral) to prostaglandin G2 (which has five 
chiral centres). The subsequent peroxidase reaction reduces prostaglandin G2 to
prostaglandin H2. Here we report the co-crystal structures of murine
apo-cyclooxygenase-2 in complex with arachidonic acid and prostaglandin. These
structures suggest the molecular basis for the stereospecificity of prostaglandin
G2 synthesis.

DOI: 10.1038/35011103 
PMID: 10811226  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Nature. 2000 May 4;405(6782):94-7.

A role for excreted quinones in extracellular electron transfer.

Newman DK(1), Kolter R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. dkn@gps.caltech.edu

Respiratory processes in bacteria are remarkable because of their ability to use 
a variety of compounds, including insoluble minerals, as terminal electron
acceptors. Although much is known about microbial electron transport to soluble
electron acceptors, little is understood about electron transport to insoluble
compounds such as ferric oxides. In anaerobic environments, humic substances can 
serve as electron acceptors and also as electron shuttles to ferric oxides. To
explore this process, we identified mutants in Shewanella putrefaciens that are
unable to respire on humic substances. Here we show that these mutants contain
disruptions in a gene that is involved in the biosynthesis of menaquinone. During
growth, the wild type releases a menaquinone-related redox-active small molecule 
into the medium that complements the mutants. This finding raises the possibility
that electron transfer to a variety of oxidants, including poorly soluble
minerals, may be mediated by microbially excreted quinones that have yet to be
identified.

DOI: 10.1038/35011098 
PMID: 10811225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Nature. 2000 May 4;405(6782):91-4.

JNK is required for effector T-cell function but not for T-cell activation.

Dong C(1), Yang DD, Tournier C, Whitmarsh AJ, Xu J, Davis RJ, Flavell RA.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Section of Immunobiology, Yale University
School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

The hallmark of T-cell activation is the production of interleukin 2 (IL-2).
c-Jun amino-terminal kinase (JNK), a MAP kinase that phosphorylates c-Jun and
other components of the AP-1 group of transcription factors, has been implicated 
in the activation of IL-2 expression. Previously, we found that T cells from mice
deficient in the Jnk1 or Jnk2 gene can be activated and produce IL-2 normally,
but are deficient in functional differentiation into Th1 or Th2 subsets. However,
studies of mice with compound mutations indicate that JNK1 and JNK2 are redundant
during mouse development. Here we use three new mouse models in which peripheral 
T cells completely lack JNK proteins or signalling, to test whether the JNK
signalling pathway is crucial for IL-2 expression and T-cell activation.
Unexpectedly, these T cells made more IL-2 and proliferated better than wild-type
cells. However, production of effector T-cell cytokines did require JNK. Thus,
JNK is necessary for T-cell differentiation but not for naive T-cell activation.

DOI: 10.1038/35011091 
PMID: 10811224  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Nature. 2000 May 4;405(6782):85-90.

A receptor for phosphatidylserine-specific clearance of apoptotic cells.

Fadok VA(1), Bratton DL, Rose DM, Pearson A, Ezekewitz RA, Henson PM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, National Jewish Medical and Research Center, Denver,
Colorado 80206, USA. fadokv@njc.org

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 May 4;405(6782):28-9.

cytosis of cellular corpses. During apoptosis, the asymmetry of plasma membrane
phospholipids is lost, which exposes phosphatidylserine externally. The
phagocytosis of apoptotic cells can be inhibited stereospecifically by
phosphatidylserine and its structural analogues, but not by other anionic
phospholipids, suggesting that phosphatidylserine is specifically recognized.
Using phage display, we have cloned a gene that appears to recognize
phosphatidylserine on apoptotic cells. Here we show that this gene, when
transfected into B and T lymphocytes, enables them to recognize and engulf
apoptotic cells in a phosphatidylserine-specific manner. Flow cytometric analysis
using a monoclonal antibody suggested that the protein is expressed on the
surface of macrophages, fibroblasts and epithelial cells; this antibody, like
phosphatidylserine liposomes, inhibited the phagocytosis of apoptotic cells and, 
in macrophages, induced an anti-inflammatory state. This candidate
phosphatidylserine receptor is highly homologous to genes of unknown function in 
Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster, suggesting that
phosphatidylserine recognition on apoptotic cells during their removal by
phagocytes is highly conserved throughout phylogeny.

DOI: 10.1038/35011084 
PMID: 10811223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Nature. 2000 May 4;405(6782):81-5.

Dishevelled controls cell polarity during Xenopus gastrulation.

Wallingford JB(1), Rowning BA, Vogeli KM, Rothbächer U, Fraser SE, Harland RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley
94720-3204, USA.

Although cell movements are vital for establishing the normal architecture of
embryos, it is unclear how these movements are regulated during development in
vertebrates. Inhibition of Xenopus Dishevelled (Xdsh) function disrupts
convergent extension movements of cells during gastrulation, but the mechanism of
this effect is unclear, as cell fates are not affected. In Drosophila,
Dishevelled controls both cell fate and cell polarity, but whether Dishevelled is
involved in controlling cell polarity in vertebrate embryos has not been
investigated. Here we show, using time-lapse confocal microscopy, that the
failure of cells lacking Xdsh function to undergo convergent extension results
from defects in cell polarity. Furthermore, Xdsh mutations that inhibit
convergent extension correspond to mutations in Drosophila Dishevelled that
selectively perturb planar cell polarity. Finally, the localization of Xdsh at
the membrane of normal dorsal mesodermal cells is consistent with Xdsh
controlling cell polarity. Our results show that polarized cell behaviour is
essential for convergent extension and is controlled by vertebrate Dishevelled.
Thus, a vertebrate equivalent of the Drosophila planar cell polarity signalling
cascade may be required for normal gastrulation.

DOI: 10.1038/35011077 
PMID: 10811222  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Nature. 2000 May 4;405(6782):76-81.

Silberblick/Wnt11 mediates convergent extension movements during zebrafish
gastrulation.

Heisenberg CP(1), Tada M, Rauch GJ, Saúde L, Concha ML, Geisler R, Stemple DL,
Smith JC, Wilson SW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Developmental Biology, University College, London,
UK. c.heisenberg@ucl.ac.uk

Vertebrate gastrulation involves the specification and coordinated movement of
large populations of cells that give rise to the ectodermal, mesodermal and
endodermal germ layers. Although many of the genes involved in the specification 
of cell identity during this process have been identified, little is known of the
genes that coordinate cell movement. Here we show that the zebrafish silberblick 
(slb) locus encodes Wnt11 and that Slb/Wnt11 activity is required for cells to
undergo correct convergent extension movements during gastrulation. In the
absence of Slb/Wnt11 function, abnormal extension of axial tissue results in
cyclopia and other midline defects in the head. The requirement for Slb/Wnt11 is 
cell non-autonomous, and our results indicate that the correct extension of axial
tissue is at least partly dependent on medio-lateral cell intercalation in
paraxial tissue. We also show that the slb phenotype is rescued by a truncated
form of Dishevelled that does not signal through the canonical Wnt pathway,
suggesting that, as in flies, Wnt signalling might mediate morphogenetic events
through a divergent signal transduction cascade. Our results provide genetic and 
experimental evidence that Wnt activity in lateral tissues has a crucial role in 
driving the convergent extension movements underlying vertebrate gastrulation.

DOI: 10.1038/35011068 
PMID: 10811221  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Nature. 2000 May 4;405(6782):72-6.

Encoding of movement time by populations of cerebellar Purkinje cells.

Thier P(1), Dicke PW, Haas R, Barash S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive Neurology, University of Tübingen, Germany.
thier@uni-tuebingen.de

One of the earliest computational principles attributed to the cerebellum was the
measurement of time. This idea was originally suggested on anatomical grounds,
and was taken up again to explain some of the deficits in cerebellar patients.
The contribution of the cerebellum to eye movements, in contrast, has
traditionally been discussed in the context of motor learning. This view has
received support from the loss of saccade adaptation, one of the key examples of 
motor learning, following lesions of the posterior cerebellar vermis. However,
the relationship between the properties of saccade-related vermal Purkinje cells 
and the behavioural deficits that follow lesions is unclear. Here we report
results from single-unit recording experiments on monkeys that reconcile the
seemingly unrelated concepts of timing and motor learning. We report that, unlike
individual Purkinje cells, the population response of larger groups of Purkinje
cells gives a precise temporal signature of saccade onset and offset. Thus a
vermal population response may help to determine saccade duration. Modifying the 
time course of the population response by changing the weights of the
contributing individual Purkinje cells, discharging at different times relative
to the saccade, would directly translate into changes in saccade amplitude.

DOI: 10.1038/35011062 
PMID: 10811220  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Nature. 2000 May 4;405(6782):69-72.

The origin of red algae and the evolution of chloroplasts.

Moreira D(1), Le Guyader H, Philippe H.

Author information: 
(1)Equipe Phylogénie et Evolution Moléculaires, CNRS UPRES-A 8080, Université
Paris-Sud, Orsay, France. david.moreira@bc4.u-psud.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 May 4;405(6782):32-3.

Chloroplast structure and genome analyses support the hypothesis that three
groups of organisms originated from the primary photosynthetic endosymbiosis
between a cyanobacterium and a eukaryotic host: green plants (green algae + land 
plants), red algae and glaucophytes (for example, Cyanophora). Although
phylogenies based on several mitochondrial genes support a specific green
plants/red algae relationship, the phylogenetic analysis of nucleus-encoded genes
yields inconclusive, sometimes contradictory results. To address this problem, we
have analysed an alternative nuclear marker, elongation factor 2, and included
new red algae and protist sequences. Here we provide significant support for a
sisterhood of green plants and red algae. This sisterhood is also significantly
supported by a multi-gene analysis of a fusion of 13 nuclear markers (5,171 amino
acids). In addition, the analysis of an alternative fusion of 6 nuclear markers
(1,938 amino acids) indicates that glaucophytes may be the closest relatives to
the green plants/red algae group. Thus, our study provides evidence from nuclear 
markers for a single primary endosymbiosis at the origin of these groups, and
supports a kingdom Plantae comprising green plants, red algae and glaucophytes.

DOI: 10.1038/35011054 
PMID: 10811219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Nature. 2000 May 4;405(6782):65-9.

Early human occupation of the Red Sea coast of Eritrea during the last
interglacial.

Walter RC(1), Buffler RT, Bruggemann JH, Guillaume MM, Berhe SM, Negassi B,
Libsekal Y, Cheng H, Edwards RL, von Cosel R, Néraudeau D, Gagnon M.

Author information: 
(1)Departmento de Geologica, Centro de Investigaciôn Cientifica de Educación
Superior de Ensenada, Tijuana-Ensenada, B.C., Mexico. rwalter@cicese.mx

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 May 4;405(6782):24-5, 27.

The geographical origin of modern humans is the subject of ongoing scientific
debate. The 'multiregional evolution' hypothesis argues that modern humans
evolved semi-independently in Europe, Asia and Africa between 100,000 and 40,000 
years ago, whereas the 'out of Africa' hypothesis contends that modern humans
evolved in Africa between 200 and 100 kyr ago, migrating to Eurasia at some later
time. Direct palaeontological, archaeological and biological evidence is
necessary to resolve this debate. Here we report the discovery of early Middle
Stone Age artefacts in an emerged reef terrace on the Red Sea coast of Eritrea,
which we date to the last interglacial (about 125 kyr ago) using U-Th mass
spectrometry techniques on fossil corals. The geological setting of these
artefacts shows that early humans occupied coastal areas and exploited near-shore
marine food resources in East Africa by this time. Together with similar,
tentatively dated discoveries from South Africa this is the earliest well-dated
evidence for human adaptation to a coastal marine environment, heralding an
expansion in the range and complexity of human behaviour from one end of Africa
to the other. This new, wide-spread adaptive strategy may, in part, signal the
onset of modern human behaviour, which supports an African origin for modern
humans by 125 kyr ago.

DOI: 10.1038/35011048 
PMID: 10811218  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


661. Nature. 2000 May 4;405(6782):63-5.

Sensitivity of the geomagnetic axial dipole to thermal core-mantle interactions

Bloxham J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA. jeremy_bloxham@harvard.edu

Since the work of William Gilbert in 1600 (ref. 1), it has been widely believed
that the Earth's magnetic field, when suitably time-averaged, is that of a
magnetic dipole positioned at the Earth's centre and aligned with the rotational 
axis. This 'geocentric axial dipole' (GAD) hypothesis has been the central model 
for the study of the Earth's magnetic field--it underpins almost all
interpretations of palaeomagnetic data, whether for studies of palaeomagnetic
secular variation, for plate tectonic reconstructions, or for studies of
palaeoclimate. Although the GAD hypothesis appears to provide a good description 
of the Earth's magnetic field over at least the past 100 Myr (ref. 2), it is
difficult to test the hypothesis for earlier periods, and there is some evidence 
that a more complicated model is required for the period before 250 Myr ago. Kent
and Smethurst suggested that this additional complexity might be because the
inner core would have been smaller at that time. Here I use a numerical geodynamo
model and find that reducing the size of the inner core does not significantly
change the character of the magnetic field. I also consider an alternative
process that could lead to the breakdown of the GAD hypothesis on this timescale,
the evolution of heat-flux variations at the core-mantle boundary, induced by
mantle convection. I find that a simple pattern of heat-flux variations at the
core-mantle boundary, which is plausible for times before the Mesozoic era,
results in a strong octupolar contribution to the field, consistent with previous
findings.

DOI: 10.1038/35011045 
PMID: 10811217 


662. Nature. 2000 May 4;405(6782):60-3.

Large differences in tropical aerosol forcing at the top of the atmosphere and
Earth's surface

Satheesh SK(1), Ramanathan V V.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Clouds, Chemistry, and Climate, Scripps Institution of
Oceanography, University of California at San Diego, La Jolla 92093, USA.

The effect of radiative forcing by anthropogenic aerosols is one of the largest
sources of uncertainty in climate predictions. Direct observations of the forcing
are therefore needed, particularly for the poorly understood tropical aerosols.
Here we present an observational method for quantifying aerosol forcing to within
+/-5 per cent. We use calibrated satellite radiation measurements and five
independent surface radiometers to quantify the aerosol forcing simultaneously at
the Earth's surface and the top of the atmosphere over the tropical northern
Indian Ocean. In winter, this region is covered by anthropogenic aerosols of
sulphate, nitrate, organics, soot and fly ash from the south Asian continent.
Accordingly, mean clear-sky solar radiative heating for the winters of 1998 and
1999 decreased at the ocean surface by 12 to 30 Wm(-2), but only by 4 to 10
Wm(-2) at the top of the atmosphere. This threefold difference (due largely to
solar absorption by soot) and the large magnitude of the observed surface forcing
both imply that tropical aerosols might slow down the hydrological cycle.

DOI: 10.1038/35011039 
PMID: 10811216 


663. Nature. 2000 May 4;405(6782):56-60.

Rapid prototyping of patterned functional nanostructures

Fan H(1), Lu Y, Stump A, Reed ST, Baer T, Schunk R, Perez-Luna V V, Lopez GP,
Brinker CJ.

Author information: 
(1)The University of New Mexico Center for Micro-Engineered Materials and
Department of Chemical and Nuclear Engineering, Albuquerque 87131, USA.

Living systems exhibit form and function on multiple length scales and at
multiple locations. In order to mimic such natural structures, it is necessary to
develop efficient strategies for assembling hierarchical materials. Conventional 
photolithography, although ubiquitous in the fabrication of microelectronics and 
microelectromechanical systems, is impractical for defining feature sizes below
0.1 micrometres and poorly suited to pattern chemical functionality. Recently,
so-called 'soft' lithographic approaches have been combined with surfactant and
particulate templating procedures to create materials with multiple levels of
structural order. But the materials thus formed have been limited primarily to
oxides with no specific functionality, and the associated processing times have
ranged from hours to days. Here, using a self-assembling 'ink' we combine
silica-surfactant self-assembly with three rapid printing procedures--pen
lithography, ink-jet printing, and dip-coating of patterned self-assembled
monolayers--to form functional, hierarchically organized structures in seconds.
The rapid-prototyping procedures we describe are simple, employ readily available
equipment, and provide a link between computer-aided design and self-assembled
nanostructures. We expect that the ability to form arbitrary functional designs
on arbitrary surfaces will be of practical importance for directly writing sensor
arrays and fluidic or photonic systems.

DOI: 10.1038/35011026 
PMID: 10811215 


664. Nature. 2000 May 4;405(6782):53-5.

Elastic turbulence in a polymer solution flow

Groisman A(1), Steinberg V V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics of Complex Systems, Weizmann Institute of Science,
Rehovot, Israel.

Turbulence is a ubiquitous phenomenon that is not fully understood. It is known
that the flow of a simple, newtonian fluid is likely to be turbulent when the
Reynolds number is large (typically when the velocity is high, the viscosity is
low and the size of the tank is large). In contrast, viscoelastic fluids such as 
solutions of flexible long-chain polymers have nonlinear mechanical properties
and therefore may be expected to behave differently. Here we observe
experimentally that the flow of a sufficiently elastic polymer solution can
become irregular even at low velocity, high viscosity and in a small tank. The
fluid motion is excited in a broad range of spatial and temporal scales, and we
observe an increase in the flow resistance by a factor of about twenty. Although 
the Reynolds number may be arbitrarily low, the observed flow has all the main
features of developed turbulence. A comparable state of turbulent flow for a
newtonian fluid in a pipe would have a Reynolds number as high as 10(5) (refs 1, 
2). The low Reynolds number or 'elastic' turbulence that we observe is
accompanied by significant stretching of the polymer molecules, resulting in an
increase in the elastic stresses of up to two orders of magnitude.

DOI: 10.1038/35011019 
PMID: 10811214 


665. Nature. 2000 May 4;405(6782):50-3.

Detection of doubled shot noise in short normal-metal/superconductor junctions

Jehl X(1), Sanquer M, Calemczuk R, Mailly D.

Author information: 
(1)DRFMC-SPSMS, CEA-Grenoble, France.

Shot noise refers to the fluctuations in electrical current through a device
arising from the discrete nature of the charge-carrying particles. Recent
experiments have exploited the fact that the shot noise is proportional to the
charge of the carriers to establish fractional quantization of quasiparticles in 
the fractional quantum Hall effect. By a similar argument, it is expected that
when a superconducting reservoir emits Cooper pairs, (which have a charge twice
that of an electron) into a short normal-metal wire, the shot noise should be
double that obtained for a normal-metal reservoir. Although the charge of Cooper 
pairs has been well established by flux quantization and tunnel experiments,
doubling of their shot noise has not yet been observed. Here we report a
shot-noise experiment using a short diffusive normal-metal superconductor
contact, in which we confirm the predicted noise behaviour for double charges.
The measurements, taken over a large range of bias current, establish that phase 
coherence is not required to observe the effect.

DOI: 10.1038/35011012 
PMID: 10811213 


666. Nature. 2000 May 4;405(6782):48-50.

Io as a source of the jovian dust streams

Graps AL(1), Grun E, Svedhem H, Kruger H, Horanyl M, Heck A, Lammers S.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institute fur Kernphysik, Heidelberg, Germany.
Amara.Graps@mpi-hd.mpg.de

Streams of dust emerging from the direction of Jupiter were discovered in 1992
during the flyby of the Ulysses spacecraft, but their precise origin within the
jovian system remained unclear. Further data collected by the Galileo spacecraft,
which has been orbiting Jupiter since December 1995, identified the possible
sources of dust as Jupiter's main ring, its gossamer ring, comet Shoemaker-Levy 9
(ref. 8) and Io. All but Jupiter's gossamer ring and Io have since been ruled
out. Here we find that the dominant source of the jovian dust streams is Io, on
the basis of periodicities in the dust impact signal. Io's volcanoes, rather than
impact ejecta, are the dust sources.

DOI: 10.1038/35011008 
PMID: 10811212 


667. Nature. 2000 May 4;405(6782):43-7.

Molecular evidence for genetic mixing of Arctic and Antarctic subpolar
populations of planktonic foraminifers.

Darling KF(1), Wade CM, Stewart IA, Kroon D, Dingle R, Brown AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, University of Edinburgh, UK.
Kate.Darling@ed.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 May 4;405(6782):23-4.

Bipolarity, the presence of a species in the high latitudes separated by a gap in
distribution across the tropics, is a well-known pattern of global species
distribution. But the question of whether bipolar species have evolved
independently at the poles since the establishment of the cold-water provinces
16-8 million years ago, or if genes have been transferred across the tropics
since that time, has not been addressed. Here we examine genetic variation in the
small subunit ribosomal RNA gene of three bipolar planktonic foraminiferal
morphospecies. We identify at least one identical genotype in all three
morphospecies in both the Arctic and Antarctic subpolar provinces, indicating
that trans-tropical gene flow must have occurred. Our genetic analysis also
reveals that foraminiferal morphospecies can consist of a complex of genetic
types. Such occurrences of genetically distinct populations within one
morphospecies may affect the use of planktonic foraminifers as a
palaeoceanographic proxy for climate change and necessitate a reassessment of the
species concept for the group.

DOI: 10.1038/35011002 
PMID: 10811211  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Nature. 2000 May 4;405(6782):39-42.

A surprising simplicity to protein folding.

Baker D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle 98195, USA.

The polypeptide chains that make up proteins have thousands of atoms and hence
millions of possible inter-atomic interactions. It might be supposed that the
resulting complexity would make prediction of protein structure and
protein-folding mechanisms nearly impossible. But the fundamental physics
underlying folding may be much simpler than this complexity would lead us to
expect folding rates and mechanisms appear to be largely determined by the
topology of the native (folded) state, and new methods have shown great promise
in predicting protein-folding mechanisms and the three-dimensional structures of 
proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/35011000 
PMID: 10811210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):1018-21.

Retrotransposition of a bacterial group II intron.

Cousineau B(1), Lawrence S, Smith D, Belfort M.

Author information: 
(1)Wadsworth Center, New York State Department of Health, and School of Public
Health, State University of New York at Albany, 12201-2002, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature 2001 Nov 1;414(6859):84.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):940-1, 943.

Self-splicing group II introns may be the evolutionary progenitors of eukaryotic 
spliceosomal introns, but the route by which they invade new chromosomal sites is
unknown. To address the mechanism by which group II introns are disseminated, we 
have studied the bacterial L1.LtrB intron from Lactococcus lactis. The protein
product of this intron, LtrA, possesses maturase, reverse transcriptase and
endonuclease enzymatic activities. Together with the intron, LtrA forms a
ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complex which mediates a process known as retrohoming. In
retrohoming, the intron reverse splices into a cognate intronless DNA site.
Integration of a DNA copy of the intron is recombinase independent but requires
all three activities of LtrA. Here we report the first experimental demonstration
of a group II intron invading ectopic chromosomal sites, which occurs by a
distinct retrotransposition mechanism. This retrotransposition process is
endonuclease-independent and recombinase-dependent, and is likely to involve
reverse splicing of the intron RNA into cellular RNA targets. These
retrotranspositions suggest a mechanism by which splicesomal introns may have
become widely dispersed.

DOI: 10.1038/35010029 
PMID: 10801134  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):1014-8.

Roles of E. coli DNA polymerases IV and V in lesion-targeted and untargeted SOS
mutagenesis.

Tang M(1), Pham P, Shen X, Taylor JS, O'Donnell M, Woodgate R, Goodman MF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences and Chemistry, University of Southern
California, University Park, Los Angeles 90089-1340, USA.

The expression of the Escherichia coli DNA polymerases pol V (UmuD'2C complex)
and pol IV (DinB) increases in response to DNA damage. The induction of pol V is 
accompanied by a substantial increase in mutations targeted at DNA template
lesions in a process called SOS-induced error-prone repair. Here we show that the
common DNA template lesions, TT (6-4) photoproducts, TT cis-syn photodimers and
abasic sites, are efficiently bypassed within 30 seconds by pol V in the presence
of activated RecA protein (RecA*), single-stranded binding protein (SSB) and pol 
III's processivity beta,gamma-complex. There is no detectable bypass by either
pol IV or pol III on this time scale. A mutagenic 'signature' for pol V is its
incorporation of guanine opposite the 3'-thymine of a TT (6-4) photoproduct, in
agreement with mutational spectra. In contrast, pol III and pol IV incorporate
adenine almost exclusively. When copying undamaged DNA, pol V exhibits low
fidelity with error rates of around 10(-3) to 10(-4), with pol IV being 5- to
10-fold more accurate. The effects of RecA protein on pol V, and
beta,gamma-complex on pol IV, cause a 15,000- and 3,000-fold increase in DNA
synthesis efficiency, respectively. However, both polymerases exhibit low
processivity, adding 6 to 8 nucleotides before dissociating. Lesion bypass by pol
V does not require beta,gamma-complex in the presence of non-hydrolysable
ATPgammaS, indicating that an intact RecA filament may be required for
translesion synthesis.

DOI: 10.1038/35010020 
PMID: 10801133  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):1011-3.

Low fidelity DNA synthesis by human DNA polymerase-eta.

Matsuda T(1), Bebenek K, Masutani C, Hanaoka F, Kunkel TA.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Genetics, National Institute of Environmental Health
Sciences, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709, USA.

A superfamily of DNA polymerases that bypass lesions in DNA has been described.
Some family members are described as error-prone because mutations that
inactivate the polymerase reduce damage-induced mutagenesis. In contrast,
mutations in the skin cancer susceptibility gene XPV, which encodes DNA
polymerase (pol)-eta, lead to increased ultraviolet-induced mutagenesis. This,
and the fact that pol-eta primarily inserts adenines during efficient bypass of
thymine-thymine dimers in vitro, has led to the description of pol-eta as
error-free. However, here we show that human pol-eta copies undamaged DNA with
much lower fidelity than any other template-dependent DNA polymerase studied.
Pol-eta lacks an intrinsic proofreading exonuclease activity and, depending on
the mismatch, makes one base substitution error for every 18 to 380 nucleotides
synthesized. This very low fidelity indicates a relaxed requirement for correct
base pairing geometry and indicates that the function of pol-eta may be tightly
controlled to prevent potentially mutagenic DNA synthesis.

DOI: 10.1038/35010014 
PMID: 10801132  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):1007-11.

Direct observation of dendritic actin filament networks nucleated by Arp2/3
complex and WASP/Scar proteins.

Blanchoin L(1), Amann KJ, Higgs HN, Marchand JB, Kaiser DA, Pollard TD.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Biology Laboratory, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La
Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Most nucleated cells crawl about by extending a pseudopod that is driven by the
polymerization of actin filaments in the cytoplasm behind the leading edge of the
plasma membrane. These actin filaments are linked into a network by Y-branches,
with the pointed end of each filament attached to the side of another filament
and the rapidly growing barbed end facing forward. Because Arp2/3 complex
nucleates actin polymerization and links the pointed end to the side of another
filament in vitro, a dendritic nucleation model has been proposed in which Arp2/3
complex initiates filaments from the sides of older filaments. Here we report, by
using a light microscopy assay, many new features of the mechanism. Branching
occurs during, rather than after, nucleation by Arp2/3 complex activated by the
Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) or Scar protein; capping protein and
profilin act synergistically with Arp2/3 complex to favour branched nucleation;
phosphate release from aged actin filaments favours dissociation of Arp2/3
complex from the pointed ends of filaments; and branches created by Arp2/3
complex are relatively rigid. These properties result in the automatic assembly
of the branched actin network after activation by proteins of the WASP/Scar
family and favour the selective disassembly of proximal regions of the network.

DOI: 10.1038/35010008 
PMID: 10801131  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):1003-7.

CpG methylation is maintained in human cancer cells lacking DNMT1.

Rhee I(1), Jair KW, Yen RW, Lengauer C, Herman JG, Kinzler KW, Vogelstein B,
Baylin SB, Schuebel KE.

Author information: 
(1)The Johns Hopkins Oncology Center, and Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21231, USA.

Hypermethylation is associated with the silencing of tumour susceptibility genes 
in several forms of cancer; however, the mechanisms responsible for this aberrant
methylation are poorly understood. The prototypic DNA methyltransferase, DNMT1,
has been widely assumed to be responsible for most of the methylation of the
human genome, including the abnormal methylation found in cancers. To test this
hypothesis, we disrupted the DNMT1 gene through homologous recombination in human
colorectal carcinoma cells. Here we show that cells lacking DNMT1 exhibited
markedly decreased cellular DNA methyltransferase activity, but there was only a 
20% decrease in overall genomic methylation. Although juxtacentromeric satellites
became significantly demethylated, most of the loci that we analysed, including
the tumour suppressor gene p16INK4a, remained fully methylated and silenced.
These results indicate that DNMT1 has an unsuspected degree of regional
specificity in human cells and that methylating activities other than DNMT1 can
maintain the methylation of most of the genome.

DOI: 10.1038/35010000 
PMID: 10801130  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):999-1003.

Transmembrane phosphoprotein Cbp regulates the activities of Src-family tyrosine 
kinases.

Kawabuchi M(1), Satomi Y, Takao T, Shimonishi Y, Nada S, Nagai K, Tarakhovsky A, 
Okada M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Protein Metabolism, Institute for Protein Research, Osaka
University, Suita, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):945, 947.

The Src family of protein tyrosine kinases (Src-PTKs) is important in the
regulation of growth and differentiation of eukaryotic cells. The activity of
Src-PTKs in cells of different types is negatively controlled by Csk, which
specifically phosphorylates a conserved regulatory tyrosine residue at the
carboxy-terminal tail of the Src-PTKs. Csk is mainly cytoplasmic and Src-PTKs are
predominantly membrane-associated. This raises a question about the mechanism of 
interaction between these enzymes. Here we present Cbp--a transmembrane
phosphoprotein that is ubiquitously expressed and binds specifically to the SH2
domain of Csk. Cbp is involved in the membrane localization of Csk and in the
Csk-mediated inhibition of c-Src. In the plasma membrane Cbp is exclusively
localized in the GM1 ganglioside-enriched detergent-insoluble membrane domain,
which is important in receptor-mediated signalling. These findings reveal Cbp as 
a new component of the regulatory mechanism controlling the activity of
membrane-associated Src-PTKs.

DOI: 10.1038/35010121 
PMID: 10801129  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):995-9.

TACI and BCMA are receptors for a TNF homologue implicated in B-cell autoimmune
disease.

Gross JA(1), Johnston J, Mudri S, Enselman R, Dillon SR, Madden K, Xu W,
Parrish-Novak J, Foster D, Lofton-Day C, Moore M, Littau A, Grossman A, Haugen H,
Foley K, Blumberg H, Harrison K, Kindsvogel W, Clegg CH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, ZymoGenetics, Seattle, Washington 98102, USA.
grossj@zgi.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):949-50.

B cells are important in the development of autoimmune disorders by mechanisms
involving dysregulated polyclonal B-cell activation, production of pathogenic
antibodies, and co-stimulation of autoreactive T cells. zTNF4 (BLyS, BAFF,
TALL-1, THANK) is a member of the tumour necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family that
is a potent co-activator of B cells in vitro and in vivo. Here we identify two
receptors for zTNF4 and demonstrate a relationship between zTNF4 and autoimmune
disease. Transgenic animals overexpressing zTNF4 in lymphoid cells develop
symptoms characteristic of systemic lupus erythaematosus (SLE) and expand a rare 
population of splenic B-Ia lymphocytes. In addition, circulating zTNF4 is more
abundant in NZBWF1 and MRL-lpr/lpr mice during the onset and progression of SLE. 
We have identified two TNF receptor family members, TACI and BCMA, that bind
zTNF4. Treatment of NZBWF1 mice with soluble TACI-Ig fusion protein inhibits the 
development of proteinuria and prolongs survival of the animals. These findings
demonstrate the involvement of zTNF4 and its receptors in the development of SLE 
and identify TACI-Ig as a promising treatment of autoimmune disease in humans.

DOI: 10.1038/35010115 
PMID: 10801128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):992-5.

Identification of sleep-promoting neurons in vitro.

Gallopin T(1), Fort P, Eggermann E, Cauli B, Luppi PH, Rossier J, Audinat E,
Mühlethaler M, Serafin M.

Author information: 
(1)Département de Physiologie, Centre Médical Universitaire, Genève, Switzerland.

The neurons responsible for the onset of sleep are thought to be located in the
preoptic area and more specifically, in the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus
(VLPO). Here we identify sleep-promoting neurons in vitro and show that they
represent an homogeneous population of cells that must be inhibited by systems of
arousal during the waking state. We find that two-thirds of the VLPO neurons are 
multipolar triangular cells that show a low-threshold spike. This proportion
matches that of cells active during sleep in the same region. We then show, using
single-cell reverse transcriptase followed by polymerase chain reaction, that
these neurons probably contain gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). We also show that 
these neurons are inhibited by noradrenaline and acetylcholine, both of which are
transmitters of wakefulness. As most of these cells are also inhibited by
serotonin but unaffected by histamine, their overall inhibition by transmitters
of wakefulness is in agreement with their relative inactivity during waking with 
respect to sleep. We propose that the reciprocal inhibitory interaction of such
VLPO neurons with the noradrenergic, serotoninergic and cholinergic waking
systems to which they project is a key factor for promoting sleep.

DOI: 10.1038/35010109 
PMID: 10801127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):990-2.

Human population in the biodiversity hotspots.

Cincotta RP(1), Wisnewski J, Engelman R.

Author information: 
(1)Research Department, Population Action International, Washington, DC 20036,
USA. cincotta@popact.org

Biologists have identified 25 areas, called biodiversity hotspots, that are
especially rich in endemic species and particularly threatened by human
activities. The human population dynamics of these areas, however, are not well
quantified. Here we report estimates of key demographic variables for each
hotspot, and for three extensive tropical forest areas that are less immediately 
threatened. We estimate that in 1995 more than 1.1 billion people, nearly 20% of 
world population, were living within the hotspots, an area covering about 12% of 
Earth's terrestrial surface. We estimate that the population growth rate in the
hotspots (1995-2000) is 1.8% yr(-1), substantially higher than the population
growth rate of the world as a whole (1.3% yr(-1)) and above that of the
developing countries (1.6% yr(-1)). These results suggest that substantial
human-induced environmental changes are likely to continue in the hotspots and
that demographic change remains an important factor in global biodiversity
conservation. The results also underline the potential conservation significance 
of the continuing worldwide declines in human fertility and of policies and
programs that influence human migration.

DOI: 10.1038/35010105 
PMID: 10801126  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):986-90.

Recycled oceanic crust observed in 'ghost plagioclase' within the source of Mauna
Loa lavas

Sobolev AV(1), Hofmann AW, Nikogosian IK.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut fur Chemie, Mainz, Germany. asobolev@mpch-mainz.mpg.de

The hypothesis that mantle plumes contain recycled oceanic crust is now widely
accepted. Some specific source components of the Hawaiian plume have been
inferred to represent recycled oceanic basalts, pelagic sediments or oceanic
gabbros. Bulk lava compositions, however, retain the specific trace-element
fingerprint of the original crustal component in only a highly attenuated form.
Here we report the discovery of exotic, strontium-enriched melt inclusions in
Mauna Loa olivines. Their complete trace-element patterns strongly resemble those
of layered gabbros found in ophiolites, which are characterized by cumulus
plagioclase with very high strontium abundances. The major-element compositions
of these melts indicate that their composition cannot be the result of the
assimilation of present-day oceanic crust through which the melts have travelled.
Instead, the gabbro has been transformed into a (high-pressure) eclogite by
subduction and recycling, and this eclogite has then been incorporated into the
Hawaiian mantle plume. The trace-element signature of the original plagioclase is
present only as a 'ghost' signature, which permits specific identification of the
recycled rock type. The 'ghost plagioclase' trace-element signature demonstrates 
that the former gabbro can retain much of its original chemical identity through 
the convective cycle without completely mixing with other portions of the former 
oceanic crust.

DOI: 10.1038/35010098 
PMID: 10801125 


679. Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):982-6.

A homochiral metal-organic porous material for enantioselective separation and
catalysis

Seo JS(1), Whang D, Lee H, Jun SI, Oh J, Jeon YJ, Kim K.

Author information: 
(1)National Creative Research Initiative Center for Smart Supramolecules and
Department of Chemistry, Pohang University of Science and Technology, Republic of
Korea.

Inorganic zeolites are used for many practical applications that exploit the
microporosity intrinsic to their crystal structures. Organic analogues, which are
assembled from modular organic building blocks linked through non-covalent
interactions, are of interest for similar applications. These range from
catalysis, separation and sensor technology to optoelectronics, with
enantioselective separation and catalysis being especially important for the
chemical and pharmaceutical industries. The modular construction of these
analogues allows flexible and rational design, as both the architecture and
chemical functionality of the micropores can, in principle, be precisely
controlled. Porous organic solids with large voids and high framework stability
have been produced, and investigations into the range of accessible pore
functionalities have been initiated. For example, catalytically active organic
zeolite analogues are known, as are chiral metal-organic open-framework
materials. However, the latter are only available as racemic mixtures, or lack
the degree of framework stability or void space that is required for practical
applications. Here we report the synthesis of a homochiral metal-organic porous
material that allows the enantioselective inclusion of metal complexes in its
pores and catalyses a transesterification reaction in an enantioselective manner.
Our synthesis strategy, which uses enantiopure metal-organic clusters as
secondary building blocks, should be readily applicable to chemically modified
cluster components and thus provide access to a wide range of porous organic
materials suitable for enantioselective separation and catalysis.

DOI: 10.1038/35010088 
PMID: 10801124 


680. Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):980-2.

Inorganic yellow-red pigments without toxic metals

Jansen M(1), Letschert HP.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut fur Festkorperforschung, Stuttgart, Germany.
martin@jansen.mpi-stuttgart.mpg.de

Inorganic pigments have been utilized by mankind since ancient times, and are
still widely used to colour materials exposed to elevated temperatures during
processing or application. Indeed, in the case of glasses, glazes and ceramics,
there is no alternative to inorganic pigments for colouring. However, most
inorganic pigments contain heavy metals or transition metals that can adversely
effect the environment and human health if critical levels are exceeded.
Cadmium-based pigments in particular are a cause of concern: although the
pigments are not toxic due to their very low solubility in water and dilute
mineral acids, cadmium itself is toxic and can enter the environment in a
bioavailable form through waste-disposal sites and incineration plants. This has 
led to regulations, based on the precautionary principle, that strongly restrict 
the use of cadmium pigments. And even though recent assessments have concluded
that the risk to humans or the environment might be not as significant as
originally feared, a strong demand for inherently safer substitutes remains. Here
we demonstrate that solid solutions of the perovskites CaTaO2N and LaTaON2
constitute promising candidates for such substitutes: their brilliance, tinting
strength, opacity, dispersability, light-fastness and heat stability rival that
of the cadmium pigments, while their colour can be tuned through the desired
range, from yellow through orange to deep red, by simple composition adjustments.
Because all the constituent elements are harmless, this perovskite-based
inorganic pigment system seems a promising replacement that could eliminate one
of the sources for cadmium emissions to the environment and some of the remaining
concerns about pigment safety.

DOI: 10.1038/35010082 
PMID: 10801123 


681. Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):977-80.

Coulomb-blockade transport in single-crystal organic thin-film transistors

Schoonveld WA(1), Wildeman J, Fichou D, Bobbert PA, van Wees BJ, Klapwijk TM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Physics, and Materials Science Center, University of
Groningen, The Netherlands. alex.schoonveld@philips.com

Coulomb-blockade transport--whereby the Coulomb interaction between electrons can
prohibit their transport around a circuit--occurs in systems in which both the
tunnel resistance, Rb between neighbouring sites is large (>>h/e2) and the
charging energy, E(C) (E(C) = e2/2C, where C is the capacitance of the site), of 
an excess electron on a site is large compared to kT. (Here e is the charge of an
electron, k is Boltzmann's constant, and h is Planck's constant.) The nature of
the individual sites--metallic, superconducting, semiconducting or quantum
dot--is to first order irrelevant for this phenomenon to be observed. Coulomb
blockade has also been observed in two-dimensional arrays of normal-metal tunnel 
junctions, but the relatively large capacitances of these micrometre-sized metal 
islands results in a small charging energy, and so the effect can be seen only at
extremely low temperatures. Here we demonstrate that organic thin-film
transistors based on highly ordered molecular materials can, to first order, also
be considered as an array of sites separated by tunnel resistances. And as a
result of the sub-nanometre sizes of the sites (the individual molecules), and
hence their small capacitances, the charging energy dominates at room
temperature. Conductivity measurements as a function of both gate bias and
temperature reveal the presence of thermally activated transport, consistent with
the conventional model of Coulomb blockade.

DOI: 10.1038/35010073 
PMID: 10801122 


682. Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):974-7.

Measurement of the quantum of thermal conductance

Schwab K(1), Henriksen EA, Worlock JM, Roukes ML.

Author information: 
(1)Condensed Matter Physics, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena 91125, 
USA.

The physics of mesoscopic electronic systems has been explored for more than 15
years. Mesoscopic phenomena in transport processes occur when the wavelength or
the coherence length of the carriers becomes comparable to, or larger than, the
sample dimensions. One striking result in this domain is the quantization of
electrical conduction, observed in a quasi-one-dimensional constriction formed
between reservoirs of two-dimensional electron gas. The conductance of this
system is determined by the number of participating quantum states or 'channels' 
within the constriction; in the ideal case, each spin-degenerate channel
contributes a quantized unit of 2e(2)/h to the electrical conductance. It has
been speculated that similar behaviour should be observable for thermal transport
in mesoscopic phonon systems. But experiments attempted in this regime have so
far yielded inconclusive results. Here we report the observation of a quantized
limiting value for the thermal conductance, Gth, in suspended insulating
nanostructures at very low temperatures. The behaviour we observe is consistent
with predictions for phonon transport in a ballistic, one-dimensional channel: at
low temperatures, Gth approaches a maximum value of g0 = pi2kB2T/3h, the
universal quantum of thermal conductance.

DOI: 10.1038/35010065 
PMID: 10801121 


683. Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):971-4.

Quantum suppression of superconductivity in ultrathin nanowires

Bezryadin A(1), Lau CN, Tinkham M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138,
USA. alexey@rsj.harvard.edu

It is of fundamental importance to establish whether there is a limit to how thin
a superconducting wire can be, while retaining its superconducting character--and
if there is a limit, to determine what sets it. This issue may also be of
practical importance in defining the limit to miniaturization of superconducting 
electronic circuits. At high temperatures, the resistance of linear
superconductors is caused by excitations called thermally activated phase slips. 
Quantum tunnelling of phase slips is another possible source of resistance that
is still being debated. It has been theoretically predicted that such quantum
phase slips can destroy superconductivity in very narrow wires. Here we report
resistance measurements on ultrathin (< or = 10 nm) nanowires produced by coating
carbon nanotubes with a superconducting Mo-Ge alloy. We find that nanowires can
be superconducting or insulating depending on the ratio of their normal-state
resistance (R(N)) to the quantum resistance for Cooper pairs (Rq). If R(N) < Rq, 
quantum tunnelling of phase slips is prohibited by strong damping, and so the
wires stay superconducting. In contrast, we observe an insulating state for R(N) 
> Rq, which we explain in terms of proliferation of quantum phase slips and a
corresponding localization of Cooper pairs.

DOI: 10.1038/35010060 
PMID: 10801120 


684. Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):968-71.

Identification of molecular-cloud material in interplanetary dust particles.

Messenger S(1).

Author information: 
(1)McDonnell Center for the Space Sciences, Physics Department, Washington
University, St. Louis, Missouri 63130-4899, USA. dbunny@howdy.wustl.edu

Interplanetary dust particles (IDPs) collected in the Earth's stratosphere and
meteorites are fragments of comets and asteroids. These are 'primitive'
meteorites in part because they have preserved materials which predate the
formation of the Solar System. The most primitive (least altered) meteorites
contain a few parts per million of micrometre-sized dust which formed in the
atmospheres of giant stars. Some meteorites have elevated D/H and 15N/14N ratios 
that are attributed to surviving interstellar organic molecules which have
probably been strongly diluted and altered by parent-body processes. Most IDPs
are chemically, mineralogically, and texturally primitive in comparison to
meteorites. Here I show that H and N isotopic anomalies among fragile 'cluster'
IDPs are far larger, more common, and less equilibrated than those previously
observed in other IDPs or meteorites. In some cases, the D/H ratios that we
measure reach the values of interstellar molecules, suggesting that
molecular-cloud material has survived intact. These observations indicate that
cluster IDPs are the most primitive class of Solar System materials currently
available for laboratory analysis.

DOI: 10.1038/35010053 
PMID: 10801119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):960-7.

Structure of the reovirus core at 3.6 A resolution.

Reinisch KM(1), Nibert ML, Harrison SC.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

The reovirus core is an assembly with a relative molecular mass of 52 million
that synthesizes, modifies and exports viral messenger RNA. Analysis of its
structure by X-ray crystallography shows that there are alternative, specific and
completely non-equivalent contacts made by several surfaces of two of its
proteins; that the RNA capping and export apparatus is a hollow cylinder, which
probably sequesters its substrate to ensure completion of the capping reactions; 
that the genomic double-stranded RNA is coiled into concentric layers within the 
particle; and that there is a protein shell that appears to be common to all
groups of double-stranded RNA viruses.

DOI: 10.1038/35010041 
PMID: 10801118  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):955-9.

A flat Universe from high-resolution maps of the cosmic microwave background
radiation

de Bernardis P(1), Ade PA, Bock JJ, Bond JR, Borrill J, Boscaleri A, Coble K,
Crill BP, De Gasperis G, Farese PC, Ferreira PG, Ganga K, Giacometti M, Hivon E, 
Hristov VV, Iacoangeli A, Jaffe AH, Lange AE, Martinis L, Masi S, Mason PV,
Mauskopf PD, Melchiorri A, Miglio L, Montroy T, Netterfield CB.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Fisica, Universita' di Roma La Sapienza, Italy.
debernardis@roma1.infn.it

The blackbody radiation left over from the Big Bang has been transformed by the
expansion of the Universe into the nearly isotropic 2.73 K cosmic microwave
background. Tiny inhomogeneities in the early Universe left their imprint on the 
microwave background in the form of small anisotropies in its temperature. These 
anisotropies contain information about basic cosmological parameters,
particularly the total energy density and curvature of the Universe. Here we
report the first images of resolved structure in the microwave background
anisotropies over a significant part of the sky. Maps at four frequencies clearly
distinguish the microwave background from foreground emission. We compute the
angular power spectrum of the microwave background, and find a peak at Legendre
multipole Ipeak = (197 +/- 6), with an amplitude delta T200 = (69 +/- 8) microK. 
This is consistent with that expected for cold dark matter models in a flat
(euclidean) Universe, as favoured by standard inflationary models.

DOI: 10.1038/35010035 
PMID: 10801117 


687. Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):901-4.

Single-molecule analysis of DNA uncoiling by a type II topoisomerase.

Strick TR(1), Croquette V, Bensimon D.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Physique Statistique de l'Ecole Normale Superieure, UMR 8550
CNRS, University of Paris VI, France.

Type II DNA topoisomerases are ubiquitous ATP-dependent enzymes capable of
transporting a DNA through a transient double-strand break in a second DNA
segment. This enables them to untangle DNA and relax the interwound supercoils
(plectonemes) that arise in twisted DNA. In vivo, they are responsible for
untangling replicated chromosomes and their absence at mitosis or meiosis
ultimately causes cell death. Here we describe a micromanipulation experiment in 
which we follow in real time a single Drosophila melanogaster topoisomerase II
acting on a linear DNA molecule which is mechanically stretched and supercoiled. 
By monitoring the DNA's extension in the presence of ATP, we directly observe the
relaxation of two supercoils during a single catalytic turnover. By controlling
the force pulling on the molecule, we determine the variation of the reaction
rate with the applied stress. Finally, in the absence of ATP, we observe the
damping of a DNA crossover by a single topoisomerase on at least two different
timescales (configurations). These results show that single molecule experiments 
are a powerful new tool for the study of topoisomerases.

DOI: 10.1038/35009144 
PMID: 10786800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):897-900.

Interplay of p53 and DNA-repair protein XRCC4 in tumorigenesis, genomic stability
and development.

Gao Y(1), Ferguson DO, Xie W, Manis JP, Sekiguchi J, Frank KM, Chaudhuri J,
Horner J, DePinho RA, Alt FW.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, The Children's Hospital, and Department of
Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):823-5.

XRCC4 is a non-homologous end-joining protein employed in DNA double strand break
repair and in V(D)J recombination. In mice, XRCC4-deficiency causes a pleiotropic
phenotype, which includes embryonic lethality and massive neuronal apoptosis.
When DNA damage is not repaired, activation of the cell cycle checkpoint protein 
p53 can lead to apoptosis. Here we show that p53-deficiency rescues several
aspects of the XRCC4-deficient phenotype, including embryonic lethality, neuronal
apoptosis, and impaired cellular proliferation. However, there was no significant
rescue of impaired V(D)J recombination or lymphocyte development. Although
p53-deficiency allowed postnatal survival of XRCC4-deficient mice, they routinely
succumbed to pro-B-cell lymphomas which had chromosomal translocations linking
amplified c-myc oncogene and IgH locus sequences. Moreover, even XRCC4-deficient 
embryonic fibroblasts exhibited marked genomic instability including chromosomal 
translocations. Our findings support a crucial role for the non-homologous
end-joining pathway as a caretaker of the mammalian genome, a role required both 
for normal development and for suppression of tumours.

DOI: 10.1038/35009138 
PMID: 10786799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):892-7.

Role of NF-kappaB in p53-mediated programmed cell death.

Ryan KM(1), Ernst MK, Rice NR, Vousden KH.

Author information: 
(1)Regulation of Cell Growth Laboratory, NCI-FCRDC, Frederick, Maryland
21702-1201, USA.

The tumour suppressor p53 inhibits cell growth through activation of cell-cycle
arrest and apoptosis, and most cancers have either mutation within the p53 gene
or defects in the ability to induce p53. Activation or re-introduction of p53
induces apoptosis in many tumour cells and may provide effective cancer therapy. 
One of the key proteins that modulates the apoptotic response is NF-kappaB, a
transcription factor that can protect or contribute to apoptosis. Here we show
that induction of p53 causes an activation of NF-kappaB that correlates with the 
ability of p53 to induce apoptosis. Inhibition or loss of NF-kappaB activity
abrogated p53-induced apoptosis, indicating that NF-kappaB is essential in
p53-mediated cell death. Activation of NF-kappaB by p53 was distinct from that
mediated by tumour-necrosis factor-alpha and involved MEK1 and the activation of 
pp90rsk. Inhibition of MEK1 blocked activation of NF-kappaB by p53 and completely
abrogated p53-induced cell death. We conclude that inhibition of NF-kappaB in
tumours that retain wild-type p53 may diminish, rather than augment, a
therapeutic response.

DOI: 10.1038/35009130 
PMID: 10786798  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):889-92.

Integration of floral inductive signals in Arabidopsis.

Blázquez MA(1), Weigel D.

Author information: 
(1)The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Flowering of Arabidopsis is regulated by a daylength-dependent pathway that
accelerates flowering in long days and a daylength-independent pathway that
ensures flowering in the absence of inductive conditions. These pathways are
genetically separable, as there are mutations that delay flowering in long but
not short days. Conversely, mutations that block synthesis of the hormone
gibberellin abolish flowering in short days, but have on their own only a minor
effect in long days. A third pathway, the autonomous pathway, probably acts by
modulating the other two pathways. Understanding where and how these pathways are
integrated is a prerequisite for understanding why similar environmental or
endogenous cues can elicit opposite flowering responses in different plants. In
Arabidopsis, floral induction leads ultimately to the upregulation of floral
meristem-identity genes such as LEAFY, indicating that floral inductive signals
are integrated upstream of LEAFY Here we show that gibberellins activate the
LEAFY promoter through cis elements that are different from those that are
sufficient for the daylength response, demonstrating that the LEAFY promoter
integrates environmental and endogenous signals controlling flowering time.

DOI: 10.1038/35009125 
PMID: 10786797  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):884-8.

CD1c-mediated T-cell recognition of isoprenoid glycolipids in Mycobacterium
tuberculosis infection.

Moody DB(1), Ulrichs T, Mühlecker W, Young DC, Gurcha SS, Grant E, Rosat JP,
Brenner MB, Costello CE, Besra GS, Porcelli SA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Immunology and Allergy, Brigham and Women's Hospital
and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
bmoody@rics.bwh.harvard.edu

The discovery of the CD1 antigen presentation pathway has expanded the spectrum
of T-cell antigens to include lipids, but the range of natural lipid antigens and
functions of CD1-restricted T cells in vivo remain poorly understood. Here we
show that the T-cell antigen receptor and the CD1c protein mediate recognition of
an evolutionarily conserved family of isoprenoid glycolipids whose members
include essential components of protein glycosylation and cell-wall synthesis
pathways. A CD1c-restricted, mycobacteria-specific T-cell line recognized two
previously unknown mycobacterial hexosyl-1-phosphoisoprenoids and structurally
related mannosyl-beta1-phosphodolichols. Responses to
mannosyl-beta1-phosphodolichols were common among CD1c-restricted T-cell lines
and peripheral blood T lymphocytes of human subjects recently infected with M.
tuberculosis, but were not seen in naive control subjects. These results define a
new class of broadly distributed lipid antigens presented by the CD1 system
during infection in vivo and suggest an immune mechanism for recognition of
senescent or transformed cells that are known to have altered dolichol lipids.

DOI: 10.1038/35009119 
PMID: 10786796  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):881-4.

Ion permeation mechanism of the potassium channel.

Aqvist J(1), Luzhkov V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Uppsala University, Biomedical
Center, Sweden. aqvist@xray.bmc.uu.se

Ion-selective channels enable the specific permeation of ions through cell
membranes and provide the basis of several important biological functions; for
example, electric signalling in the nervous system. Although a large amount of
electrophysiological data is available, the molecular mechanisms by which these
channels can mediate ion transport remain a significant unsolved problem. With
the recently determined crystal structure of the representative K+ channel (KcsA)
from Streptomyces lividans, it becomes possible to examine ion conduction
pathways on a microscopic level. K+ channels utilize multi-ion conduction
mechanisms, and the three-dimensional structure also shows several ions present
in the channel. Here we report results from molecular dynamics free energy
perturbation calculations that both establish the nature of the multiple ion
conduction mechanism and yield the correct ion selectivity of the channel. By
evaluating the energetics of all relevant occupancy states of the selectivity
filter, we find that the favoured conduction pathway involves transitions only
between two main states with a free difference of about 5 kcal mol(-1). Other
putative permeation pathways can be excluded because they would involve states
that are too high in energy.

DOI: 10.1038/35009114 
PMID: 10786795  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):876-81.

Experience-dependent plasticity of dendritic spines in the developing rat barrel 
cortex in vivo.

Lendvai B(1), Stern EA, Chen B, Svoboda K.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, New York 11724, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):825, 827.

Do changes in neuronal structure underlie cortical plasticity? Here we used
time-lapse two-photon microscopy of pyramidal neurons in layer 2/3 of developing 
rat barrel cortex to image the structural dynamics of dendritic spines and
filopodia. We found that these protrusions were highly motile: spines and
filopodia appeared, disappeared or changed shape over tens of minutes. To test
whether sensory experience drives this motility we trimmed whiskers one to three 
days before imaging. Sensory deprivation markedly (approximately 40%) reduced
protrusive motility in deprived regions of the barrel cortex during a critical
period around postnatal days (P)11-13, but had no effect in younger (P8-10) or
older (P14-16) animals. Unexpectedly, whisker trimming did not change the
density, length or shape of spines and filopodia. However, sensory deprivation
during the critical period degraded the tuning of layer 2/3 receptive fields.
Thus sensory experience drives structural plasticity in dendrites, which may
underlie the reorganization of neural circuits.

DOI: 10.1038/35009107 
PMID: 10786794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):871-6.

Visual behaviour mediated by retinal projections directed to the auditory
pathway.

von Melchner L(1), Pallas SL, Sur M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):820-1.

An unresolved issue in cortical development concerns the relative contributions
of intrinsic and extrinsic factors to the functional specification of different
cortical areas. Ferrets in which retinal projections are redirected neonatally to
the auditory thalamus have visually responsive cells in auditory thalamus and
cortex, form a retinotopic map in auditory cortex and have visual receptive field
properties in auditory cortex that are typical of cells in visual cortex. Here we
report that this cross-modal projection and its representation in auditory cortex
can mediate visual behaviour. When light stimuli are presented in the portion of 
the visual field that is 'seen' only by this projection, 'rewired' ferrets
respond as though they perceive the stimuli to be visual rather than auditory.
Thus the perceptual modality of a neocortical region is instructed to a
significant extent by its extrinsic inputs. In addition, gratings of different
spatial frequencies can be discriminated by the rewired pathway, although the
grating acuity is lower than that of the normal visual pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/35009102 
PMID: 10786793  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):869-71.

Insurance-based advantage to helpers in a tropical hover wasp.

Field J(1), Shreeves G, Sumner S, Casiraghi M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University College London, UK. jeremy.field@ucl.ac.uk

The origin and maintenance of eusociality is a central problem in evolutionary
biology. Eusocial groups contain individuals that forfeit their own reproduction 
in order to help others reproduce. In facultatively eusocial taxa, offspring can 
choose whether to found new nests or become helpers in their natal groups. In
many facultatively eusocial insects, offspring need continuous care during
development, but adult carers have life expectancies shorter than the
developmental period. When a lone foundress dies, her partly reared brood are
usually doomed. Here, we show that helpers in a tropical hover wasp
(Liostenogaster flavolineata) have an insurance-based advantage over lone
foundresses because after a helper dies, most of the brood that she has partly
reared will be brought to maturity by surviving nest-mates. After some of the
helpers are experimentally removed from a multi-female nest, the reduced group is
left with more brood than it would normally rear. We found that larger, more
valuable extra brood were reared through to maturity, but not smaller, less
valuable brood. Smaller brood may be sacrificed to feed larger brood, and reduced
groups probably benefited from increased short-term helper recruitment. Rearing
extra brood did not increase adult mortality or brood development time.

DOI: 10.1038/35009097 
PMID: 10786792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):865-9.

Determination of relative growth rates of natural quartz crystals

Ihinger PD(1), Zink SI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 
06520-8109, USA. phil.ihinger@yale.edu

Although the theory describing crystal growth in the geological environment is
well established, there are few quantitative studies that delimit the absolute
time involved in the growth of natural crystals. The actual mechanisms
responsible for the variation in size and shape of individual crystal faces are, 
in fact, not well understood. Here we describe a micro-infrared spectroscopic
study of a single, gem-quality quartz crystal that allows us to measure the size,
shape and relative growth rate of each of the crystal faces that are active
throughout its growth history. We demonstrate that the abundances of
hydrogen-bearing impurities can serve as 'speedometers' to monitor the growth
rate of advancing crystal faces. Our technique can be applied to crystals from a 
variety of geological environments to determine their growth histories. Within
the electronics industry, the technique might facilitate the production of
defect-free synthetic crystals required for high-quality resonators and,
ultimately, might allow determination of the absolute time involved in geological
processes such as the crystallization of magmas, fluid flow in metamorphism and
the sealing of open cracks in earthquake rupture zones.

DOI: 10.1038/35009091 
PMID: 10786791 


697. Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):861-5.

Respiration as the main determinant of carbon balance in European forests.

Valentini R(1), Matteucci G, Dolman AJ, Schulze ED, Rebmann C, Moors EJ, Granier 
A, Gross P, Jensen NO, Pilegaard K, Lindroth A, Grelle A, Bernhofer C, Grünwald
T, Aubinet M, Ceulemans R, Kowalski AS, Vesala T, Rannik U, Berbigier P, Loustau 
D, Gudmundsson J, Thorgeirsson H, Ibrom A, Morgenstern K, Clement R.

Author information: 
(1)University of Tuscia, Department of Forest Environment and Resources, Viterbo,
Italy. rik@unitus.it

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):819-20.
    Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):789-90.

Carbon exchange between the terrestrial biosphere and the atmosphere is one of
the key processes that need to be assessed in the context of the Kyoto Protocol. 
Several studies suggest that the terrestrial biosphere is gaining carbon, but
these estimates are obtained primarily by indirect methods, and the factors that 
control terrestrial carbon exchange, its magnitude and primary locations, are
under debate. Here we present data of net ecosystem carbon exchange, collected
between 1996 and 1998 from 15 European forests, which confirm that many European 
forest ecosystems act as carbon sinks. The annual carbon balances range from an
uptake of 6.6 tonnes of carbon per hectare per year to a release of nearly 1 t C 
ha(-1) yr(-1), with a large variability between forests. The data show a
significant increase of carbon uptake with decreasing latitude, whereas the gross
primary production seems to be largely independent of latitude. Our observations 
indicate that, in general, ecosystem respiration determines net ecosystem carbon 
exchange. Also, for an accurate assessment of the carbon balance in a particular 
forest ecosystem, remote sensing of the normalized difference vegetation index or
estimates based on forest inventories may not be sufficient.

DOI: 10.1038/35009084 
PMID: 10786790  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):858-61.

Evidence that decomposition rates of organic carbon in mineral soil do not vary
with temperature.

Giardina CP(1), Ryan MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Management, University of
Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu 96822, USA. giardina@hawaii.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):819-20.
    Nature. 2005 Jan 20;433(7023):204-5.
    Nature. 2000 Dec 14;408(6814):789-90.

It has been suggested that increases in temperature can accelerate the
decomposition of organic carbon contained in forest mineral soil (Cs), and,
therefore, that global warming should increase the release of soil organic carbon
to the atmosphere. These predictions assume, however, that decay constants can be
accurately derived from short-term laboratory incubations of soil or that in situ
incubations of fresh litter accurately represent the temperature sensitivity of
Cs decomposition. But our limited understanding of the biophysical factors that
control Cs decomposition rates, and observations of only minor increases in Cs
decomposition rate with temperature in longer-term forest soil heating
experiments and in latitudinal comparisons of Cs decomposition rates bring these 
predictions into question. Here we have compiled Cs decomposition data from 82
sites on five continents. We found that Cs decomposition rates were remarkably
constant across a global-scale gradient in mean annual temperature. These data
suggest that Cs decomposition rates for forest soils are not controlled by
temperature limitations to microbial activity, and that increased temperature
alone will not stimulate the decomposition of forest-derived carbon in mineral
soil.

DOI: 10.1038/35009076 
PMID: 10786789  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):856-8.

Designing fast oxide-ion conductors based on La2Mo2O9

Lacorre P(1), Goutenoire F, Bohnke O, Retoux R, Laligant Y.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire des Fluorures, UPRESA CNRS 6010, Universite du Maine, Le Mans,
France. philippe.lacorre@univ-lemans.fr

The ability of solid oxides to conduct oxide ions has been known for more than a 
century, and fast oxide-ion conductors (or oxide electrolytes) are now being used
for applications ranging from oxide fuel cells to oxygen pumping devices. To be
technologically viable, these oxide electrolytes must exhibit high oxide-ion
mobility at low operating temperatures. Because of the size and interaction of
oxygen ions with the cationic network, high mobility can only be achieved with
classes of materials with suitable structural features. So far, high mobility has
been observed in only a small number of structural families, such as fluorite,
perovskites, intergrowth perovskite/Bi2O2 layers and pyrochlores. Here we report 
a family of solid oxides based on the parent compound La2Mo2O9 (with a different 
crystal structure from all known oxide electrolytes) which exhibits fast
oxide-ion conducting properties. Like other ionic conductors, this material
undergoes a structural transition around 580 degrees C resulting in an increase
of conduction by almost two orders of magnitude. Its conductivity is about 6 x
10(-2) S cm(-1) at 800 degrees C, which is comparable to that of stabilized
zirconia, the most widely used oxide electrolyte. The structural similarity of
La2Mo2O9 with beta-SnWO4 (ref. 14) suggests a structural model for the origin of 
the oxide-ion conduction. More generally, substitution of a cation that has a
lone pair of electrons by a different cation that does not have a lone pair--and 
which has a higher oxidation state--could be used as an original way to design
other oxide-ion conductors.

DOI: 10.1038/35009069 
PMID: 10786788 


700. Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):853-5.

Spontaneous macroscopic magnetization at the superconducting transition
temperature of YBa2Cu3O(7-delta)

Carmi R(1), Polturak E, Koren G, Auerbach A.

Author information: 
(1)Physics Department, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa.

A noteworthy feature of the high-temperature superconductors is the
unconventional symmetry of the superconducting order parameter. Several
experiments have established that the order parameter has a four-fold d(x2 - y2) 
symmetry under rotation of the lattice (the order parameter of conventional
superconductors is, in contrast, isotropic). An intriguing and much debated
possibility is that, in certain cases, an additional imaginary component might be
present, having an isotropic s-wave or d(xy) symmetry. A consequence of a complex
order parameter of the form d(x2 - y2) + id(xy) is that it would break both
reflection (parity, P) symmetry and time-reversal (T) symmetry, a clear signature
of which would be the spontaneous appearance of a macroscopic magnetization at
the superconducting transition temperature. Broken T symmetry has been reported, 
but searches for the effects of combined P and T symmetry breaking have so far
yielded null results. Here we report the observation of a weak (approximately
10(-5) gauss) magnetic field that appears spontaneously at the superconducting
transition temperature of epitaxial thin films of YBa2Cu3O(7-delta). The magnetic
signal originates near the edges of the samples. One interpretation for this
observation is that the order parameter carries an intrinsic angular momentum,
related to the breaking of P and T symmetries, but other possibilities cannot yet
be excluded.

DOI: 10.1038/35009062 
PMID: 10786787 


701. Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):850-3.

Statistical signatures of photon localization

Chabanov AA(1), Stoytchev M, Genack AZ.

Author information: 
(1)Physics Department, Queens College, The City University of New York, Flushing 
11367, USA. achqc@qcunixl.acc.qc.edu

The realization that electron localization in disordered systems (Anderson
localization) is ultimately a wave phenomenon has led to the suggestion that
photons could be similarly localized by disorder. This conjecture attracted wide 
interest because the differences between photons and electrons--in their
interactions, spin statistics, and methods of injection and detection--may open a
new realm of optical and microwave phenomena, and allow a detailed study of the
Anderson localization transition undisturbed by the Coulomb interaction. To date,
claims of three-dimensional photon localization have been based on observations
of the exponential decay of the electromagnetic wave as it propagates through the
disordered medium. But these reports have come under close scrutiny because of
the possibility that the decay observed may be due to residual absorption, and
because absorption itself may suppress localization. Here we show that the extent
of photon localization can be determined by a different approach--measurement of 
the relative size of fluctuations of certain transmission quantities. The
variance of relative fluctuations accurately reflects the extent of localization,
even in the presence of absorption. Using this approach, we demonstrate photon
localization in both weakly and strongly scattering quasi-one-dimensional
dielectric samples and in periodic metallic wire meshes containing metallic
scatterers, while ruling it out in three-dimensional mixtures of aluminium
spheres.

DOI: 10.1038/35009055 
PMID: 10786786 


702. Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):848-50.

Extended magnetic reconnection at the Earth's magnetopause from detection of
bi-directional jets

Phan TD(1), Kistler LM, Klecker B, Haerendel G, Paschmann G, Sonnerup BU,
Baumjohann W, Bavassano-Cattaneo MB, Carlson CW, DiLellis AM, Fornacon KH, Frank 
LA, Fujimoto M, Georgescu E, Kokubun S, Moebius E, Mukai T, Oieroset M, Paterson 
WR, Reme H.

Author information: 
(1)Space Sciences Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley 94720, USA.
phan@ssl.berkeley.edu

Magnetic reconnection is a process that converts magnetic energy into
bi-directional plasma jets; it is believed to be the dominant process by which
solar-wind energy enters the Earth's magnetosphere. This energy is subsequently
dissipated by magnetic storms and aurorae. Previous single-spacecraft
observations revealed only single jets at the magnetopause--while the existence
of a counter-streaming jet was implicitly assumed, no experimental confirmation
was available. Here we report in situ two-spacecraft observations of
bi-directional jets at the magnetopause, finding evidence for a stable and
extended reconnection line; the latter implies substantial entry of the solar
wind into the magnetosphere. We conclude that reconnection is determined by
large-scale interactions between the solar wind and the magnetosphere, rather
than by local conditions at the magnetopause.

DOI: 10.1038/35009050 
PMID: 10786785 


703. Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):841-7.

Induction of visual orientation modules in auditory cortex.

Sharma J(1), Angelucci A, Sur M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):820-1.

Modules of neurons sharing a common property are a basic organizational feature
of mammalian sensory cortex. Primary visual cortex (V1) is characterized by
orientation modules--groups of cells that share a preferred stimulus
orientation--which are organized into a highly ordered orientation map. Here we
show that in ferrets in which retinal projections are routed into the auditory
pathway, visually responsive neurons in 'rewired' primary auditory cortex are
also organized into orientation modules. The orientation tuning of neurons within
these modules is comparable to the tuning of cells in V1 but the orientation map 
is less orderly. Horizontal connections in rewired cortex are more patchy and
periodic than connections in normal auditory cortex, but less so than connections
in V1. These data show that afferent activity has a profound influence on diverse
components of cortical circuitry, including thalamocortical and local
intracortical connections, which are involved in the generation of orientation
tuning, and long-range horizontal connections, which are important in creating an
orientation map.

DOI: 10.1038/35009043 
PMID: 10786784  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):837-40.

Turbulent convection at very high Rayleigh numbers

Niemela JJ(1), Skrbek L, Sreenivasan KR, Donnelly RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Oregon, Eugene 97403, USA.

Turbulent convection occurs when the Rayleigh number (Ra)--which quantifies the
relative magnitude of thermal driving to dissipative forces in the fluid
motion--becomes sufficiently high. Although many theoretical and experimental
studies of turbulent convection exist, the basic properties of heat transport
remain unclear. One important question concerns the existence of an asymptotic
regime that is supposed to occur at very high Ra. Theory predicts that in such a 
state the Nusselt number (Nu), representing the global heat transport, should
scale as Nu proportional to Ra(beta) with beta = 1/2. Here we investigate thermal
transport over eleven orders of magnitude of the Rayleigh number (10(6) < or = Ra
< or = 10(7)), using cryogenic helium gas as the working fluid. Our data, over
the entire range of Ra, can be described to the lowest order by a single
power-law with scaling exponent beta close to 0.31. In particular, we find no
evidence for a transition to the Ra(1/2) regime. We also study the variation of
internal temperature fluctuations with Ra, and probe velocity statistics
indirectly.

DOI: 10.1038/35009036 
PMID: 10786783 


705. Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):787-90.

Normalizing mitochondrial superoxide production blocks three pathways of
hyperglycaemic damage.

Nishikawa T(1), Edelstein D, Du XL, Yamagishi S, Matsumura T, Kaneda Y, Yorek MA,
Beebe D, Oates PJ, Hammes HP, Giardino I, Brownlee M.

Author information: 
(1)Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Diabetes Research Centre, Bronx, New York
10461, USA.

Diabetic hyperglycaemia causes a variety of pathological changes in small
vessels, arteries and peripheral nerves. Vascular endothelial cells are an
important target of hyperglycaemic damage, but the mechanisms underlying this
damage are not fully understood. Three seemingly independent biochemical pathways
are involved in the pathogenesis: glucose-induced activation of protein kinase C 
isoforms; increased formation of glucose-derived advanced glycation end-products;
and increased glucose flux through the aldose reductase pathway. The relevance of
each of these pathways is supported by animal studies in which pathway-specific
inhibitors prevent various hyperglycaemia-induced abnormalities. Hyperglycaemia
increases the production of reactive oxygen species inside cultured bovine aortic
endothelial cells. Here we show that this increase in reactive oxygen species is 
prevented by an inhibitor of electron transport chain complex II, by an uncoupler
of oxidative phosphorylation, by uncoupling protein-1 and by manganese superoxide
dismutase. Normalizing levels of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species with each 
of these agents prevents glucose-induced activation of protein kinase C,
formation of advanced glycation end-products, sorbitol accumulation and NFkappaB 
activation.

DOI: 10.1038/35008121 
PMID: 10783895  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):782-7.

AFX-like Forkhead transcription factors mediate cell-cycle regulation by Ras and 
PKB through p27kip1.

Medema RH(1), Kops GJ, Bos JL, Burgering BM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology, University Medical Center, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):714.

The Forkhead transcription factors AFX, FKHR and FKHR-L1 are orthologues of
DAF-16, a Forkhead factor that regulates longevity in Caenorhabditis elegans.
Here we show that overexpression of these Forkhead transcription factors causes
growth suppression in a variety of cell lines, including a Ras-transformed cell
line and a cell line lacking the tumour suppressor PTEN. Expression of AFX blocks
cell-cycle progression at phase G1, independent of functional retinoblastoma
protein (pRb) but dependent on the cell-cycle inhibitor p27kip1. Indeed, AFX
transcriptionally activates p27kip1, resulting in increased protein levels. We
conclude that AFX-like proteins are involved in cell-cycle regulation and that
inactivation of these proteins is an important step in oncogenic transformation.

DOI: 10.1038/35008115 
PMID: 10783894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):778-82.

NAK is an IkappaB kinase-activating kinase.

Tojima Y(1), Fujimoto A, Delhase M, Chen Y, Hatakeyama S, Nakayama K, Kaneko Y,
Nimura Y, Motoyama N, Ikeda K, Karin M, Nakanishi M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geriatric Research, National Institute for Longevity Sciences,
Obu, Aichi, Japan.

Phosphorylation of IkappaB by the IkappaB kinase (IKK) complex is a critical step
leading to IkappaB degradation and activation of transcription factor NF-kappaB. 
The IKK complex contains two catalytic subunits, IKKalpha and IKKbeta, the latter
being indispensable for NF-kappaB activation by pro-inflammatory cytokines.
Although IKK is activated by phosphorylation of the IKKbeta activation loop, the 
physiological IKK kinases that mediate responses to extracellular stimuli remain 
obscure. Here we describe an IKK-related kinase, named NAK (NF-kappaB-activating 
kinase), that can activate IKK through direct phosphorylation. NAK induces
IkappaB degradation and NF-kappaB activity through IKKbeta. Endogenous NAK is
activated by phorbol ester tumour promoters and growth factors, whereas
catalytically inactive NAK specifically inhibits activation of NF-kappaB by
protein kinase C-epsilon (PKCepsilon). Thus, NAK is an IKK kinase that may
mediate IKK and NF-kappaB activation in response to growth factors that stimulate
PKCepsilon activity.

DOI: 10.1038/35008109 
PMID: 10783893  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):774-8.

The major substrates for TAP in vivo are derived from newly synthesized proteins.

Reits EA(1), Vos JC, Grommé M, Neefjes J.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Tumor Biology, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):709-10.

The transporter associated with antigen processing (TAP) is a member of the
family of ABC transporters that translocate a large variety of substrates across 
membranes. TAP transports peptides from the cytosol into the endoplasmic
reticulum for binding to MHC class I molecules and for subsequent presentation to
the immune system. Here we follow the lateral mobility of TAP in living cells.
TAP's mobility increases when it is inactive and decreases when it translocates
peptides. Because TAP activity is dependent on substrate, the mobility of TAP is 
used to monitor the intracellular peptide content in vivo. Comparison of the
diffusion rates in peptide-free and peptide-saturated cells indicates that
normally about one-third of all TAP molecules actively translocate peptides.
However, during an acute influenza infection TAP becomes fully employed owing to 
the production and degradation of viral proteins. Furthermore, TAP activity
depends on continuing protein translation. This implies that MHC class I
molecules mainly sample peptides that originate from newly synthesized proteins, 
to ensure rapid presentation to the immune system.

DOI: 10.1038/35008103 
PMID: 10783892  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):770-4.

Rapid degradation of a large fraction of newly synthesized proteins by
proteasomes.

Schubert U(1), Antón LC, Gibbs J, Norbury CC, Yewdell JW, Bennink JR.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Viral Diseases, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):709-10.

MHC class I molecules function to present peptides eight to ten residues long to 
the immune system. These peptides originate primarily from a cytosolic pool of
proteins through the actions of proteasomes, and are transported into the
endoplasmic reticulum, where they assemble with nascent class I molecules. Most
peptides are generated from proteins that are apparently metabolically stable. To
explain this, we previously proposed that peptides arise from proteasomal
degradation of defective ribosomal products (DRiPs). DRiPs are polypeptides that 
never attain native structure owing to errors in translation or
post-translational processes necessary for proper protein folding. Here we show, 
first, that DRiPs constitute upwards of 30% of newly synthesized proteins as
determined in a variety of cell types; second, that at least some DRiPs represent
ubiquitinated proteins; and last, that ubiquitinated DRiPs are formed from human 
immunodeficiency virus Gag polyprotein, a long-lived viral protein that serves as
a source of antigenic peptides.

DOI: 10.1038/35008096 
PMID: 10783891  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):766-70.

SHATTERPROOF MADS-box genes control seed dispersal in Arabidopsis.

Liljegren SJ(1), Ditta GS, Eshed Y, Savidge B, Bowman JL, Yanofsky MF.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Cell and Developmental Biology, University of California at San
Diego, La Jolla 92093-0116, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):711, 713.

The fruit, which mediates the maturation and dispersal of seeds, is a complex
structure unique to flowering plants. Seed dispersal in plants such as
Arabidopsis occurs by a process called fruit dehiscence, or pod shatter. Few
studies have focused on identifying genes that regulate this process, in spite of
the agronomic value of controlling seed dispersal in crop plants such as canola. 
Here we show that the closely related SHATTERPROOF (SHP1) and SHATTERPROOF2
(SHP2) MADS-box genes are required for fruit dehiscence in Arabidopsis. Moreover,
SHP1 and SHP2 are functionally redundant, as neither single mutant displays a
novel phenotype. Our studies of shp1 shp2 fruit, and of plants constitutively
expressing SHP1 and SHP2, show that these two genes control dehiscence zone
differentiation and promote the lignification of adjacent cells. Our results
indicate that further analysis of the molecular events underlying fruit
dehiscence may allow genetic manipulation of pod shatter in crop plants.

DOI: 10.1038/35008089 
PMID: 10783890  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):762-6.

Interruption of a basal ganglia-forebrain circuit prevents plasticity of learned 
vocalizations.

Brainard MS(1), Doupe AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Keck Center for Integrative Neuroscience, Department of Physiology, University
of California San Francisco, 94143-0444, USA. msb@phy.ucsf.edu

Birdsong, like speech, is a learned vocal behaviour that relies greatly on
hearing; in both songbirds and humans the removal of auditory feedback by
deafening leads to a gradual deterioration of adult vocal production. Here we
investigate the neural mechanisms that contribute to the processing of auditory
feedback during the maintenance of song in adult zebra finches. We show that the 
deleterious effects on song production that normally follow deafening can be
prevented by a second insult to the nervous system--the lesion of a basal
ganglia-forebrain circuit. The results suggest that the removal of auditory
feedback leads to the generation of an instructive signal that actively drives
non-adaptive changes in song; they also suggest that this instructive signal is
generated within (or conveyed through) the basal ganglia-forebrain pathway. Our
findings provide evidence that cortical-basal ganglia circuits may participate in
the evaluation of sensory feedback during calibration of motor performance, and
demonstrate that damage to such circuits can have little effect on previously
learned behaviour while conspicuously disrupting the capacity to adaptively
modify that behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/35008083 
PMID: 10783889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):759-61.

Asymmetric redirection of flow through the heart.

Kilner PJ(1), Yang GZ, Wilkes AJ, Mohiaddin RH, Firmin DN, Yacoub MH.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance Unit, Royal Brompton Hospital site of
Imperial College of Science, Medicine and Technology, London, UK.
p.kilner@rbh.nthames.nhs.uk

Through cardiac looping during embryonic development, paths of flow through the
mature heart have direction changes and asymmetries whose topology and functional
significance remain relatively unexplored. Here we show, using magnetic resonance
velocity mapping, the asymmetric redirection of streaming blood in atrial and
ventricular cavities of the adult human heart, with sinuous, chirally asymmetric 
paths of flow through the whole. On the basis of mapped flow fields and drawings 
that illustrate spatial relations between flow paths, we propose that asymmetries
and curvatures of the looped heart have potential fluidic and dynamic advantages.
Patterns of atrial filling seem to be asymmetric in a manner that allows the
momentum of inflowing streams to be redirected towards atrio-ventricular valves, 
and the change in direction at ventricular level is such that recoil away from
ejected blood is in a direction that can enhance rather than inhibit
ventriculo-atrial coupling. Chiral asymmetry might help to minimize dissipative
interaction between entering, recirculating and outflowing streams. These factors
might combine to allow a reciprocating, sling-like, 'morphodynamic' mode of
action to come into effect when heart rate and output increase during exercise.

DOI: 10.1038/35008075 
PMID: 10783888  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):755-8.

The metapopulation capacity of a fragmented landscape.

Hanski I(1), Ovaskainen O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Systematics, University of Helsinki, Finland.
ilkka.hanski@helsinki.fi

Ecologists and conservation biologists have used many measures of landscape
structure to predict the population dynamic consequences of habitat loss and
fragmentation, but these measures are not well justified by population dynamic
theory. Here we introduce a new measure for highly fragmented landscapes, termed 
the metapopulation capacity, which is rigorously derived from metapopulation
theory and can easily be applied to real networks of habitat fragments with known
areas and connectivities. Technically, metapopulation capacity is the leading
eigenvalue of an appropriate 'landscape' matrix. A species is predicted to
persist in a landscape if the metapopulation capacity of that landscape is
greater than a threshold value determined by the properties of the species.
Therefore, metapopulation capacity can conveniently be used to rank different
landscapes in terms of their capacity to support viable metapopulations. We
present an empirical example on multiple networks occupied by an endangered
species of butterfly. Using this theory, we may also calculate how the
metapopulation capacity is changed by removing habitat fragments from or adding
new ones into specific spatial locations, or by changing their areas. The
metapopulation capacity should find many applications in metapopulation ecology, 
landscape ecology and conservation biology.

DOI: 10.1038/35008063 
PMID: 10783887  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):752-5.

Quantitative evidence for global amphibian population declines.

Houlahan JE(1), Findlay CS, Schmidt BR, Meyer AH, Kuzmin SL.

Author information: 
(1)Ottawa-Carleton Institute of Biology, University of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
jeffhoul@science.uottawa.ca

Comment in
    Nature. 2001 Aug 2;412(6846):499-500.

Although there is growing concern that amphibian populations are declining
globally, much of the supporting evidence is either anecdotal or derived from
short-term studies at small geographical scales. This raises questions not only
about the difficulty of detecting temporal trends in populations which are
notoriously variable, but also about the validity of inferring global trends from
local or regional studies. Here we use data from 936 populations to assess
large-scale temporal and spatial variations in amphibian population trends. On a 
global scale, our results indicate relatively rapid declines from the late
1950s/early 1960s to the late 1960s, followed by a reduced rate of decline to the
present. Amphibian population trends during the 1960s were negative in western
Europe (including the United Kingdom) and North America, but only the latter
populations showed declines from the 1970s to the late 1990s. These results
suggest that while large-scale trends show considerable geographical and temporal
variability, amphibian populations are in fact declining--and that this decline
has been happening for several decades.

DOI: 10.1038/35008052 
PMID: 10783886  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):748-52.

Subduction erosion along the Middle America convergent margin

Ranero CR(1), von Huene R.

Author information: 
(1)GEOMAR, Kiel, Germany. cranero@geomar.de

'Subduction erosion' has been invoked to explain material missing from some
continents along convergent margins. It has been suggested that this form of
tectonic erosion removes continental material at the front of the margin or along
the underside of the upper (continental) plate. Frontal erosion is interpreted
from disrupted topography at the base of a slope and is most evident in the wake 
of subducting seamounts. In contrast, structures resulting from erosion at the
base of a continental plate are seldom recognized in seismic reflection images
because such images typically have poor resolution at distances greater than
approximately 5 km from the trench axis. Basal erosion from seamounts and ridges 
has been inferred, but few large subducted bodies--let alone the eroded base of
the upper plate--are imaged convincingly. From seismic images we identify here
two mechanisms of basal erosion: erosion by seamount tunnelling and removal of
large rock lenses of a distending upper plate. Seismic cross-sections from Costa 
Rica to Nicaragua indicate that erosion may extend along much of the Middle
America convergent margin.

DOI: 10.1038/35008046 
PMID: 10783885 


716. Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):746-8.

Self-assembly of nanoparticles into structured spherical and network aggregates

Boal AK(1), Ilhan F, DeRouchey JE, Thurn-Albrecht T, Russell TP, Rotello VM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Massachusetts, Amherst 01003, USA.

Multi-scale ordering of materials is central for the application of molecular
systems in macroscopic devices. Self-assembly based on selective control of
non-covalent interactions provides a powerful tool for the creation of structured
systems at a molecular level, and application of this methodology to
macromolecular systems provides a means for extending such structures to
macroscopic length scale. Monolayer-functionalized nanoparticles can be made with
a wide variety of metallic and non-metallic cores, providing a versatile building
block for such approaches. Here we present a polymer-mediated 'bricks and mortar'
strategy for the ordering of nanoparticles into structured assemblies. This
methodology allows monolayer-protected gold particles to self-assemble into
structured aggregates while thermally controlling their size and morphology.
Using 2-nm gold particles as building blocks, we show that spherical aggregates
of size 97 +/- 17 nm can be produced at 23 degrees C, and that 0.5-1 microm
spherical assemblies with (5-40) x 10(5) individual subunits form at -20 degrees 
C. Intriguingly, extended networks of approximately 50-nm subunits are formed at 
10 degrees C, illustrating the potential of our approach for the formation of
diverse structural motifs such as wires and rods. These findings demonstrate that
the assembly process provides control over the resulting aggregates, while the
modularity of the 'bricks and mortar' approach allows combinatorial control over 
the constituents, providing a versatile route to new materials systems.

DOI: 10.1038/35008037 
PMID: 10783884 


717. Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):743-5.

Manipulation of atoms across a surface at room temperature

Fishlock TW(1), Oral A, Egdell RG, Pethica JB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials, University of Oxford, UK.

Since the realization that the tips of scanning probe microscopes can interact
with atoms at surfaces, there has been much interest in the possibility of
building or modifying nanostructures or molecules directly from single atoms.
Individual large molecules can be positioned on surfaces, and atoms can be
transferred controllably between the sample and probe tip. The most complex
structures are produced at cryogenic temperatures by sliding atoms across a
surface to chosen sites. But there are problems in manipulating atoms laterally
at higher temperatures--atoms that are sufficiently well bound to a surface to be
stable at higher temperatures require a stronger tip interaction to be moved.
This situation differs significantly from the idealized weakly interacting tips
of scanning tunnelling or atomic force microscopes. Here we demonstrate that
precise positioning of atoms on a copper surface is possible at room temperature.
The triggering mechanism for the atomic motion unexpectedly depends on the
tunnelling current density, rather than the electric field or proximity of tip
and surface.

DOI: 10.1038/35008030 
PMID: 10783883 


718. Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):740-3.

Complete photonic bandgaps in 12-fold symmetric quasicrystals

Zoorob ME(1), Charlton MD, Parker GJ, Baumberg JJ, Netti MC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electronics and Computer Science, University of Southampton, UK.

Photonic crystals are attracting current interest for a variety of reasons, such 
as their ability to inhibit the spontaneous emission of light. This and related
properties arise from the formation of photonic bandgaps, whereby multiple
scattering of photons by lattices of periodically varying refractive indices acts
to prevent the propagation of electromagnetic waves having certain wavelengths.
One route to forming photonic crystals is to etch two-dimensional periodic
lattices of vertical air holes into dielectric slab waveguides. Such structures
can show complete photonic bandgaps, but only for large-diameter air holes in
materials of high refractive index (such as gallium arsenide, n = 3.69), which
unfortunately leads to significantly reduced optical transmission when combined
with optical fibres of low refractive index. It has been suggested that
quasicrystalline (rather than periodic) lattices can also possess photonic
bandgaps. Here we demonstrate this concept experimentally and show that it
enables complete photonic bandgaps--non-directional and for any polarization--to 
be realized with small air holes in silicon nitride (n = 2.02), and even glass (n
= 1.45). These properties make photonic quasicrystals promising for application
in a range of optical devices.

DOI: 10.1038/35008023 
PMID: 10783882 


719. Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):736-40.

Phase transitions in the incoherent lattice fluctuations in YBa2Cu3O(7-delta)

Sharma RP(1), Ogale SB, Zhang ZH, Liu JR, Chu WK, Veal B, Paulikas A, Zheng H,
Venkatesan T.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Superconductivity Research, Department of Physics, University of
Maryland, College Park 20742, USA.

The growing body of experimental evidence for the existence of complex textures
of charges and spins in the high-temperature superconductors has drawn attention 
to the so-called 'stripe-phase' models as a possible basis for the mechanism of
superconductivity in these materials. Such observations have until now been
restricted to systems where the texture dynamics are slow or suppressed
altogether, and do not include the important case of YBa2Cu3O(7-delta). It seems 
likely that the dynamic behaviour of stripes, which has been suggested to undergo
several phase transitions as a function of temperature, should also be reflected 
in the lattice properties of the host materials, and this forms the motivation
for our present experiments. Specifically, we use MeV helium ion channelling, an 
ultrafast real-space probe of atomic displacements (with sub-picometre
resolution), to probe incoherent lattice fluctuations in YBa2Cu3O(7-delta) as a
function of temperature and oxygen doping. We detect lattice fluctuations that
are larger than the expected thermal vibration component, and which show
anomalies characteristic of the phase transitions anticipated for a dynamic
stripe phase. Comparison of our lattice results with single-particle-tunnelling
and photoemission data highlights the importance of spin-charge separation
phenomena in the copper oxide superconductors.

DOI: 10.1038/35008018 
PMID: 10783881 


720. Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):733-6.

Mechanisms of extensive spatiotemporal chaos in Rayleigh-Benard convection

Egolf DA(1), Melnikov IV IV, Pesch W, Ecke RE.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Nonlinear Studies, Theoretical Division, Los Alamos National
Laboratory, New Mexico 87545, USA. egolf@lanl.gov

Spatially extended dynamical systems exhibit complex behaviour in both space and 
time--spatiotemporal chaos. Analysis of dynamical quantities (such as fractal
dimensions and Lyapunov exponents) has provided insights into low-dimensional
systems; but it has proven more difficult to understand spatiotemporal chaos in
high-dimensional systems, despite abundant data describing its statistical
properties. Initial attempts have been made to extend the dynamical approach to
higher-dimensional systems, demonstrating numerically that the spatiotemporal
chaos in several simple models is extensive (the number of dynamical degrees of
freedom scales with the system volume). Here we report a computational
investigation of a phenomenon found in nature, 'spiral defect' chaos in
Rayleigh-Benard convection, in which we find that the spatiotemporal chaos in
this state is extensive and characterized by about a hundred dynamical degrees of
freedom. By studying the detailed space-time evolution of the dynamical degrees
of freedom, we find that the mechanism for the generation of chaotic disorder is 
spatially and temporally localized to events associated with the creation and
annihilation of defects.

DOI: 10.1038/35008013 
PMID: 10783880 


721. Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):732-3.

Magnetic field surrounding the starburst nucleus of the galaxy M82 from polarized
dust emission

Greaves JS(1), Holland WS, Jenness T, Hawarden TG.

Author information: 
(1)Joint Astronomy Centre, Hilo, Hawaii 96720, USA. j.greaves@jach.hawaii.edu

Magnetic fields may play an important role in the star-formation process,
especially in the central regions of 'starburst' galaxies where star formation is
vigorous. But the field directions are very difficult to determine in the dense
molecular gas out of which the stars form, so it has hitherto been impossible to 
test this hypothesis. Dust grains in interstellar clouds tend to be magnetically 
aligned, and it is possible to determine the alignment direction based on the
polarization of optical light due to preferential extinction along the long axes 
of the aligned grains. This technique works, however, only for diffuse gas, not
for the dense molecular gas. Here we report observations of polarized thermal
emission from the aligned dust grains in the central region of M82, which
directly traces the magnetic field structure (as projected onto the plane of the 
sky). Organized field lines are seen around the brightest star-forming regions,
while in the dusty halo the field lines form a giant magnetic bubble possibly
blown out by the galaxy's 'superwind'.

DOI: 10.1038/35008010 
PMID: 10783879 


722. Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):729-31.

One-dimensional nature of the magnetic fluctuations in YBa2Cu3O6.6

Mook HA(1), Dai P, Dogan F, Hunt RD.

Author information: 
(1)Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Tennessee 37831, USA. ham@ornl.gov

There is increasing evidence that inhomogeneous distributions of charge and
spin--so-called 'striped phases'--play an important role in determining the
properties of the high-temperature superconductors. For example, recent
neutron-scattering measurements on the YBa2Cu3O(7-x) family of materials show
both spin and charge fluctuations that are consistent with the striped-phase
picture. But the fluctuations associated with a striped phase are expected to be 
one-dimensional, whereas the magnetic fluctuations observed to date appear to
display two-dimensional symmetry. We show here that this apparent
two-dimensionality results from measurements on twinned crystals, and that
similar measurements on substantially detwinned crystals of YBa2Cu3O6.6 reveal
the one-dimensional character of the magnetic fluctuations, thus greatly
strengthening the striped-phase interpretation. Moreover, our results also
suggest that superconductivity originates in charge stripes that extend along the
b crystal axis, where the superfluid density is found to be substantially larger 
than for the a direction.

DOI: 10.1038/35008005 
PMID: 10783878 


723. Nature. 2000 Apr 13;404(6779):725-8.

Specificities of heparan sulphate proteoglycans in developmental processes.

Perrimon N(1), Bernfield M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Heparan sulphate proteoglycans are abundant cell-surface molecules that consist
of a protein core to which heparan sulphate glycosaminoglycan chains are
attached. The functions of these molecules have remained mostly underappreciated 
by developmental biologists; however, the actions of important signalling
molecules, for example Wnt and Hedgehog, depend on them. To understand both the
mechanisms by which ligands involved in development interact with their receptors
and how morphogens pattern tissues, biologists need to consider the functions of 
heparan sulphate proteoglycans in signalling and developmental patterning.

DOI: 10.1038/35008000 
PMID: 10783877  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):672-7.

Medicinal strategies in the treatment of obesity.

Bray GA(1), Tartaglia LA.

Author information: 
(1)Pennington Biomedical Research Center, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70808, USA.
BrayGA@pbrc.edu

When prevention fails, medicinal treatment of obesity may become a necessity. Any
strategic medicinal development must recognize that obesity is a chronic,
stigmatized and costly disease that is increasing in prevalence. Because obesity 
can rarely be cured, treatment strategies are effective only as long as they are 
used, and combined therapy may be more effective than monotherapy. For a drug to 
have significant impact on body weight it must ultimately reduce energy intake,
increase energy expenditure, or both. Currently approved drugs for long-term
treatment of obesity include sibutramine, which inhibits food intake, and
orlistat, which blocks fat digestion.

DOI: 10.1038/35007544 
PMID: 10766254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):661-71.

Central nervous system control of food intake.

Schwartz MW(1), Woods SC, Porte D Jr, Seeley RJ, Baskin DG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Harborview Medical Center and VA Puget Sound Health
Care System, University of Washington, Seattle 98104-2499, USA.

New information regarding neuronal circuits that control food intake and their
hormonal regulation has extended our understanding of energy homeostasis, the
process whereby energy intake is matched to energy expenditure over time. The
profound obesity that results in rodents (and in the rare human case as well)
from mutation of key signalling molecules involved in this regulatory system
highlights its importance to human health. Although each new signalling pathway
discovered in the hypothalamus is a potential target for drug development in the 
treatment of obesity, the growing number of such signalling molecules indicates
that food intake is controlled by a highly complex process. To better understand 
how energy homeostasis can be achieved, we describe a model that delineates the
roles of individual hormonal and neuropeptide signalling pathways in the control 
of food intake and the means by which obesity can arise from inherited or
acquired defects in their function.

DOI: 10.1038/35007534 
PMID: 10766253  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):652-60.

Towards a molecular understanding of adaptive thermogenesis.

Lowell BB(1), Spiegelman BM.

Author information: 
(1)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA. blowell@caregroup.harvard.edu

Obesity results when energy intake exceeds energy expenditure. Naturally
occurring genetic mutations, as well as ablative lesions, have shown that the
brain regulates both aspects of energy balance and that abnormalities in energy
expenditure contribute to the development of obesity. Energy can be expended by
performing work or producing heat (thermogenesis). Adaptive thermogenesis, or the
regulated production of heat, is influenced by environmental temperature and
diet. Mitochondria, the organelles that convert food to carbon dioxide, water and
ATP, are fundamental in mediating effects on energy dissipation. Recently, there 
have been significant advances in understanding the molecular regulation of
energy expenditure in mitochondria and the mechanisms of transcriptional control 
of mitochondrial genes. Here we explore these developments in relation to
classical physiological views of adaptive thermogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/35007527 
PMID: 10766252  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):644-51.

Genetics of body-weight regulation.

Barsh GS(1), Farooqi IS, O'Rahilly S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics and the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Beckman
Center, Stanford, California 94305-5428, USA.

The role of genetics in obesity is twofold. Studying rare mutations in humans and
model organisms provides fundamental insight into a complex physiological
process, and complements population-based studies that seek to reveal primary
causes. Remarkable progress has been made on both fronts, and the pace of advance
is likely to accelerate as functional genomics and the human genome project
expand and mature. Approaches based on mendelian and quantitative genetics may
well converge, and lead ultimately to more rational and selective therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/35007519 
PMID: 10766251  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):635-43.

Obesity as a medical problem.

Kopelman PG(1).

Author information: 
(1)St Bartholomew's & The Royal London School of Medicine, Queen Mary & Westfield
College, UK. P.G.Kopelman@mds.qmw.ac.uk

Obesity is now so common within the world's population that it is beginning to
replace undernutrition and infectious diseases as the most significant
contributor to ill health. In particular, obesity is associated with diabetes
mellitus, coronary heart disease, certain forms of cancer, and sleep-breathing
disorders. Obesity is defined by a body-mass index (weight divided by square of
the height) of 30 kg m(-2) or greater, but this does not take into account the
morbidity and mortality associated with more modest degrees of overweight, nor
the detrimental effect of intra-abdominal fat. The global epidemic of obesity
results from a combination of genetic susceptibility, increased availability of
high-energy foods and decreased requirement for physical activity in modern
society. Obesity should no longer be regarded simply as a cosmetic problem
affecting certain individuals, but an epidemic that threatens global well being.

DOI: 10.1038/35007508 
PMID: 10766250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):632-4.

Obesity in the new millennium.

Friedman JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Rockefeller University, New York, New York 10021-6399, USA.

Obesity has increased at an alarming rate in recent years and is now a worldwide 
public health problem. In addition to suffering poor health and an increased risk
of illnesses such as hypertension and heart disease, obese people are often
stigmatized socially. But major advances have now been made in identifying the
components of the homeostatic system that regulates body weight, including
several of the genes responsible for animal and human obesity. A key element of
the physiological system is the hormone leptin, which acts on nerve cells in the 
brain (and elsewhere) to regulate food intake and body weight. The identification
of additional molecules that comprise this homeostatic system will provide
further insights into the molecular basis of obesity, and possibilities for new
treatments.

DOI: 10.1038/35007504 
PMID: 10766249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):625-8.

The Cdt1 protein is required to license DNA for replication in fission yeast.

Nishitani H(1), Lygerou Z, Nishimoto T, Nurse P.

Author information: 
(1)Imperial Cancer Research Fund, London, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):559-60.
    Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):560-1.

To maintain genome stability in eukaryotic cells, DNA is licensed for replication
only after the cell has completed mitosis, ensuring that DNA synthesis (S phase) 
occurs once every cell cycle. This licensing control is thought to require the
protein Cdc6 (Cdc18 in fission yeast) as a mediator for association of
minichromosome maintenance (MCM) proteins with chromatin. The control is
overridden in fission yeast by overexpressing Cdc18 (ref. 11) which leads to
continued DNA synthesis in the absence of mitosis. Other factors acting in this
control have been postulated and we have used a re-replication assay to identify 
Cdt1 (ref. 14) as one such factor. Cdt1 cooperates with Cdc18 to promote DNA
replication, interacts with Cdc18, is located in the nucleus, and its
concentration peaks as cells finish mitosis and proceed to S phase. Both Cdc18
and Cdt1 are required to load the MCM protein Cdc21 onto chromatin at the end of 
mitosis and this is necessary to initiate DNA replication. Genes related to Cdt1 
have been found in Metazoa and plants (A. Whitaker, I. Roysman and T. Orr-Weaver,
personal communication), suggesting that the cooperation of Cdc6/Cdc18 with Cdt1 
to load MCM proteins onto chromatin may be a generally conserved feature of DNA
licensing in eukaryotes.

DOI: 10.1038/35007110 
PMID: 10766248  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):622-5.

XCDT1 is required for the assembly of pre-replicative complexes in Xenopus
laevis.

Maiorano D(1), Moreau J, Méchali M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Genetics, CNRS, Genome Dynamics and Development,
Montpellier, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):560-1.

In eukaryotic cells, chromosomal DNA replication begins with the formation of
pre-replication complexes at replication origins. Formation and maintenance of
pre-replication complexes is dependent upon CDC6 (ref. 1), a protein which allows
assembly of MCM2-7 proteins, which are putative replicative helicases. The
functional assembly of MCM proteins into chromatin corresponds to replication
licensing. Removal of these proteins from chromatin in S phase is crucial in
origins firing regulation. We have identified a protein that is required for the 
assembly of pre-replication complexes, in a screen for maternally expressed genes
in Xenopus. This factor (XCDT1) is a relative of fission yeast cdt1, a protein
proposed to function in DNA replication, and is the first to be identified in
vertebrates. Here we show, using Xenopus in vitro systems, that XCDT1 is required
for chromosomal DNA replication. XCDT1 associates with pre-replicative chromatin 
in a manner dependent on ORC protein and is removed from chromatin at the time of
initiation of DNA synthesis. Immunodepletion and reconstitution experiments show 
that XCDT1 is required to load MCM2-7 proteins onto pre-replicative chromatin.
These findings indicate that XCDT1 is an essential component of the system that
regulates origins firing during S phase.

DOI: 10.1038/35007104 
PMID: 10766247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):617-21.

Integrin LFA-1 interacts with the transcriptional co-activator JAB1 to modulate
AP-1 activity.

Bianchi E(1), Denti S, Granata A, Bossi G, Geginat J, Villa A, Rogge L, Pardi R.

Author information: 
(1)Scientific Institute San Raffaele-DIBIT, Milano, Italy.
bianchi.elisabetta@hsr.it

Integrin adhesion receptors transduce signals that control complex cell functions
which require the regulation of gene expression, such as proliferation,
differentiation and survival. Their intracellular domain has no catalytic
function, indicating that interaction with other transducing molecules is crucial
for integrin-mediated signalling. Here we have identified a protein that
interacts with the cytoplasmic domain of the beta2 subunit of the alphaL/beta2
integrin LFA-1. This protein is JAB1 (Jun activation domain-binding protein 1), a
coactivator of the c-Jun transcription factor. We found that JAB1 is present both
in the nucleus and in the cytoplasm of cells and that a fraction of JAB1
colocalizes with LFA-1 at the cell membrane. LFA-1 engagement is followed by an
increase of the nuclear pool of JAB1, paralleled by enhanced binding of
c-Jun-containing AP-1 complexes to their DNA consensus site and increased
transactivation of an AP-1-dependent promoter. We suggest that signalling through
the LFA-1 integrin may affect c-Jun-driven transcription by regulating JAB1
nuclear localization. This represents a new pathway for integrin-dependent
modulation of gene expression.

DOI: 10.1038/35007098 
PMID: 10766246  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):613-7.

ATM phosphorylates p95/nbs1 in an S-phase checkpoint pathway.

Lim DS(1), Kim ST, Xu B, Maser RS, Lin J, Petrini JH, Kastan MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology-Oncology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital,
Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.

The rare diseases ataxia-telangiectasia (AT), caused by mutations in the ATM
gene, and Nijmegen breakage syndrome (NBS), with mutations in the p95/nbs1 gene, 
share a variety of phenotypic abnormalities such as chromosomal instability,
radiation sensitivity and defects in cell-cycle checkpoints in response to
ionizing radiation. The ATM gene encodes a protein kinase that is activated by
ionizing radiation or radiomimetic drugs, whereas p95/nbs1 is part of a protein
complex that is involved in responses to DNA double-strand breaks. Here, because 
of the similarities between AT and NBS, we evaluated the functional interactions 
between ATM and p95/nbs1. Activation of the ATM kinase by ionizing radiation and 
induction of ATM-dependent responses in NBS cells indicated that p95/nbs1 may not
be required for signalling to ATM after ionizing radiation. However, p95/nbs1 was
phosphorylated on serine 343 in an ATM-dependent manner in vitro and in vivo
after ionizing radiation. A p95/nbs1 construct mutated at the ATM phosphorylation
site abrogated an S-phase checkpoint induced by ionizing radiation in normal
cells and failed to compensate for this functional deficiency in NBS cells. These
observations link ATM and p95/nbs1 in a common signalling pathway and provide an 
explanation for phenotypic similarities in these two diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/35007091 
PMID: 10766245  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):609-13.

PAR3 is a cofactor for PAR4 activation by thrombin.

Nakanishi-Matsui M(1), Zheng YW, Sulciner DJ, Weiss EJ, Ludeman MJ, Coughlin SR.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Institute and Daiichi Research Center, University of
California, San Francisco 94143-0130, USA.

Identification of the mechanisms by which the coagulation protease thrombin
activates platelets is critical for understanding haemostasis and thrombosis.
Thrombin activates cells at least in part by cleaving protease-activated
G-protein-coupled receptors (PARs). PAR3 and PAR4 are thrombin receptors
expressed in mouse platelets. Inhibition of thrombin binding to mPAR3 (ref. 4)
and knockout of the mPAR3 gene inhibited mouse platelet activation at low but not
high concentrations of thrombin. Thus PAR3 is important for thrombin signalling
in mouse platelets. Expression of human PAR3 in heterologous expression systems
reliably resulted in responsiveness to thrombin. Curiously, despite its
importance for the activation of mouse platelets by thrombin, mouse PAR3 (mPAR3) 
did not lead to thrombin signalling even when overexpressed. We now report that
mPAR3 and mPAR4 interact in a novel way: mPAR3 does not itself mediate
transmembrane signalling but instead functions as a cofactor for the cleavage and
activation of mPAR4 by thrombin. This establishes a paradigm for
cofactor-assisted PAR activation and for a G-protein-coupled receptor's acting as
an accessory molecule to present ligand to another receptor.

DOI: 10.1038/35007085 
PMID: 10766244  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):604-9.

High mobility of proteins in the mammalian cell nucleus.

Phair RD(1), Misteli T.

Author information: 
(1)BioInformatics Services, Rockville, Maryland 20854, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2010 Oct;11(10):678-9.

The mammalian cell nucleus contains numerous sub-compartments, which have been
implicated in essential processes such as transcription and splicing. The
mechanisms by which nuclear compartments are formed and maintained are unclear.
More fundamentally, it is not known how proteins move within the cell nucleus. We
have measured the kinetic properties of proteins in the nucleus of living cells
using photobleaching techniques. Here we show that proteins involved in diverse
nuclear processes move rapidly throughout the entire nucleus. Protein movement is
independent of energy, which indicates that proteins may use a passive mechanism 
of movement. Proteins rapidly associate and dissociate with nuclear compartments.
Using kinetic modelling, we determined residence times and steady-state fluxes of
molecules in two main nuclear compartments. These data show that many nuclear
proteins roam the cell nucleus in vivo and that nuclear compartments are the
reflection of the steady-state association/dissociation of its 'residents' with
the nucleoplasmic space. Our observations have conceptual implications for
understanding nuclear architecture and how nuclear processes are organized in
vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/35007077 
PMID: 10766243  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):601-4.

A family of candidate taste receptors in human and mouse.

Matsunami H(1), Montmayeur JP, Buck LB.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):552-3.

The gustatory system of mammals can sense four basic taste qualities, bitter,
sweet, salty and sour, as well as umami, the taste of glutamate. Previous studies
suggested that the detection of bitter and sweet tastants by taste receptor cells
in the mouth is likely to involve G-protein-coupled receptors. Although two
putative G-protein-coupled bitter/sweet taste receptors have been identified, the
chemical diversity of bitter and sweet compounds leads one to expect that there
is a larger number of different receptors. Here we report the identification of a
family of candidate taste receptors (the TRBs) that are members of the
G-protein-coupled receptor superfamily and that are specifically expressed by
taste receptor cells. A cluster of genes encoding human TRBs is located adjacent 
to a Prp gene locus, which in mouse is tightly linked to the SOA genetic locus
that is involved in detecting the bitter compound sucrose octaacetate. Another
TRB gene is found on a human contig assigned to chromosome 5p15, the location of 
a genetic locus (PROP) that controls the detection of the bitter compound
6-n-propyl-2-thiouracil in humans.

DOI: 10.1038/35007072 
PMID: 10766242  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):598-601.

Developmental cheating in the social bacterium Myxococcus xanthus.

Velicer GJ(1), Kroos L, Lenski RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Michigan State University, East Lansing 48824,
USA. velicerg@pilot.msu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):555-6.

Cheating is a potential problem in any social system that depends on cooperation 
and in which actions that benefit a group are costly to individuals that perform 
them. Genetic mutants that fail to perform a group-beneficial function but that
reap the benefits of belonging to the group should have a within-group selective 
advantage, provided that the mutants are not too common. Here we show that social
cheating exists even among prokaryotes. The bacterium Myxococcus xanthus exhibits
several social behaviours, including aggregation of cells into spore-producing
fruiting bodies during starvation. We examined a number of M. xanthus genotypes
that were defective for fruiting-body development, including several lines that
evolved for 1,000 generations under asocial conditions and others carrying
defined mutations in developmental pathways, to determine whether they behaved as
cheaters when mixed with their developmentally proficient progenitor. Clones from
several evolved lines and two defined mutants exhibited cheating during
development, being overrepresented among resulting spores relative to their
initial frequency in the mixture. The ease of finding anti-social behaviours
suggests that cheaters may be common in natural populations of M. xanthus.

DOI: 10.1038/35007066 
PMID: 10766241  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):595-8.

Rapid and early export of Phaeocystis antarctica blooms in the Ross Sea,
Antarctica.

DiTullio GR(1), Grebmeier JM, Arrigo KR, Lizotte MP, Robinson DH, Leventer A,
Barry JP, VanWoert ML, Dunbar RB.

Author information: 
(1)University of Charleston, Grice Marine Laboratory, South Carolina 29412, USA. 
ditullioj@cofc.edu

The Southern Ocean is very important for the potential sequestration of carbon
dioxide in the oceans and is expected to be vulnerable to changes in carbon
export forced by anthropogenic climate warming. Annual phytoplankton blooms in
seasonal ice zones are highly productive and are thought to contribute
significantly to pCO2 drawdown in the Southern Ocean. Diatoms are assumed to be
the most important phytoplankton class with respect to export production in the
Southern Ocean; however, the colonial prymnesiophyte Phaeocystis antarctica
regularly forms huge blooms in seasonal ice zones and coastal Antarctic waters.
There is little evidence regarding the fate of carbon produced by P. antarctica
in the Southern Ocean, although remineralization in the upper water column has
been proposed to be the main pathway in polar waters. Here we present evidence
for early and rapid carbon export from P. antarctica blooms to deep water and
sediments in the Ross Sea. Carbon sequestration from P. antarctica blooms may
influence the carbon cycle in the Southern Ocean, especially if projected
climatic changes lead to an alteration in the structure of the phytoplankton
community.

DOI: 10.1038/35007061 
PMID: 10766240  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):591-4.

Substantial contribution to sea-level rise during the last interglacial from the 
Greenland ice sheet

Cuffey KM(1), Marshall SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geography, University of California, Berkeley 94720-4740, USA.
kcuffey@socrates.berkeley.edu

During the last interglacial period (the Eemian), global sea level was at least
three metres, and probably more than five metres, higher than at present.
Complete melting of either the West Antarctic ice sheet or the Greenland ice
sheet would today raise sea levels by 6-7 metres. But the high sea levels during 
the last interglacial period have been proposed to result mainly from
disintegration of the West Antarctic ice sheet, with model studies attributing
only 1-2 m of sea-level rise to meltwater from Greenland. This result was
considered consistent with ice core evidence, although earlier work had suggested
a much reduced Greenland ice sheet during the last interglacial period. Here we
reconsider the Eemian evolution of the Greenland ice sheet by combining numerical
modelling with insights obtained from recent central Greenland ice-core analyses.
Our results suggest that the Greenland ice sheet was considerably smaller and
steeper during the Eemian, and plausibly contributed 4-5.5 m to the sea-level
highstand during that period. We conclude that the high sea level during the last
interglacial period most probably included a large contribution from Greenland
meltwater and therefore should not be interpreted as evidence for a significant
reduction of the West Antarctic ice sheet.

DOI: 10.1038/35007053 
PMID: 10766239 


740. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):588-90.

Functional hydrogel structures for autonomous flow control inside microfluidic
channels

Beebe DJ(1), Moore JS, Bauer JM, Yu Q, Liu RH, Devadoss C, Jo BH.

Author information: 
(1)The Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology, University of
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana 61801, USA. dbeebe@engr.wisc.edu

Hydrogels have been developed to respond to a wide variety of stimuli, but their 
use in macroscopic systems has been hindered by slow response times (diffusion
being the rate-limiting factor governing the swelling process). However, there
are many natural examples of chemically driven actuation that rely on short
diffusion paths to produce a rapid response. It is therefore expected that
scaling down hydrogel objects to the micrometre scale should greatly improve
response times. At these scales, stimuli-responsive hydrogels could enhance the
capabilities of microfluidic systems by allowing self-regulated flow control.
Here we report the fabrication of active hydrogel components inside microchannels
via direct photopatterning of a liquid phase. Our approach greatly simplifies
system construction and assembly as the functional components are fabricated in
situ, and the stimuli-responsive hydrogel components perform both sensing and
actuation functions. We demonstrate significantly improved response times (less
than 10 seconds) in hydrogel valves capable of autonomous control of local flow.

DOI: 10.1038/35007047 
PMID: 10766238 


741. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):584-8.

Communication at millimetre-submillimetre wavelengths using a ceramic ribbon

Yeh C(1), Shimabukuro F, Stanton P, Jamnejad V V, Imbriale W, Manshadi F.

Author information: 
(1)Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena 91109,
USA. cavour.yeh@jpl.nasa.gov

Following the discovery by Kao and Hockman that ultra-low-loss optical fibres
could be made from pure silica through the elimination of impurities, the ability
to guide signals effectively at optical wavelengths has been assured. But there
remains an important region of the spectrum--from 30 to 3,000 GHz (the
millimetre-submillimetre band)--where low-loss waveguides are unknown. The main
problem here in finding low-loss solids is no longer one of eliminating
impurities, but is due to the presence of intrinsic vibration absorption bands.
And the use of highly conducting materials is also precluded owing to high
skin-depth losses in this part of the spectrum. Here we show that a combination
of material and waveguide geometry can circumvent these difficulties. We adopt a 
ribbon-like structure with an aspect ratio of 10:1, fabricated from ceramic
alumina (Coors' 998 Alumina), and the resulting waveguide has an attenuation
factor of less than 10 dB km(-1) in the millimetre-submillimetre band. This
attenuation is more than 100 times smaller than that of a typical ceramic (or
other dielectric) circular rod waveguide and is sufficient for immediate
application.

DOI: 10.1038/35007036 
PMID: 10766237 


742. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):581-4.

Magnetoresistance from quantum interference effects in ferromagnets

Manyala N(1), Sidis Y, DiTusa JF, Aeppli G, Young DP, Fisk Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge
70803, USA.

The desire to maximize the sensitivity of read/write heads (and thus the
information density) of magnetic storage devices has stimulated interest in the
discovery and design of new magnetic materials exhibiting magnetoresistance.
Recent discoveries include the 'colossal' magnetoresistance in the manganites and
the enhanced magnetoresistance in low-carrier-density ferromagnets. An important 
feature of these systems is that the electrons involved in electrical conduction 
are different from those responsible for the magnetism. The latter are localized 
and act as scattering sites for the mobile electrons, and it is the field tuning 
of the scattering strength that ultimately gives rise to the observed
magnetoresistance. Here we argue that magnetoresistance can arise by a different 
mechanism in certain ferromagnets--quantum interference effects rather than
simple scattering. The ferromagnets in question are disordered,
low-carrier-density magnets where the same electrons are responsible for both the
magnetic properties and electrical conduction. The resulting magnetoresistance is
positive (that is, the resistance increases in response to an applied magnetic
field) and only weakly temperature-dependent below the Curie point.

DOI: 10.1038/35007030 
PMID: 10766236 


743. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):579-81.

A scalable quantum computer with ions in an array of microtraps

Cirac JI(1), Zoller P.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Theoretical Physics, University of Innsbruck, Austria.

Quantum computers require the storage of quantum information in a set of
two-level systems (called qubits), the processing of this information using
quantum gates and a means of final readout. So far, only a few systems have been 
identified as potentially viable quantum computer models--accurate quantum
control of the coherent evolution is required in order to realize gate
operations, while at the same time decoherence must be avoided. Examples include 
quantum optical systems (such as those utilizing trapped ions or neutral atoms,
cavity quantum electrodynamics and nuclear magnetic resonance) and solid state
systems (using nuclear spins, quantum dots and Josephson junctions). The most
advanced candidates are the quantum optical and nuclear magnetic resonance
systems, and we expect that they will allow quantum computing with about ten
qubits within the next few years. This is still far from the numbers required for
useful applications: for example, the factorization of a 200-digit number
requires about 3,500 qubits, rising to 100,000 if error correction is
implemented. Scalability of proposed quantum computer architectures to many
qubits is thus of central importance. Here we propose a model for an ion trap
quantum computer that combines scalability (a feature usually associated with
solid state proposals) with the advantages of quantum optical systems (in
particular, quantum control and long decoherence times).

DOI: 10.1038/35007021 
PMID: 10766235 


744. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):576-8.

Interception of comet Hyakutake's ion tail at a distance of 500 million
kilometres

Gloeckler G(1), Geiss J, Schwadron NA, Fisk LA, Zurbuchen TH, Ipavich FM, von
Steiger R, Balsiger H, Wilken B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Institute for Physical Science and Technology,
University of Maryland, College Park 20742, USA. gg10@umail.umd.edu

Remote sensing observations and the direct sampling of material from a few comets
have established the characteristic composition of cometary gas. This gas is
ionized by solar ultraviolet radiation and the solar wind to form 'pick-up' ions,
ions in a low ionization state that retain the same compositional signatures as
the original gas. The pick-up ions are carried outward by the solar wind, and
they could in principle be detected far from the coma (Sampling of pick-up ions
has also been used to study interplanetary dust, Venus' tail and the interstellar
medium.) Here we report the serendipitous detection of cometary pick-up ions,
most probably associated with the tail of comet Hyakutake, at a distance of 3.4
AU from the nucleus. Previous observations have provided a wealth of physical and
chemical information about a small sample of comets, but this detection suggests 
that remote sampling of comet compositions, and the discovery of otherwise
invisible comets, may be possible.

DOI: 10.1038/35007015 
PMID: 10766234 


745. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):574-6.

Identification of comet Hyakutake's extremely long ion tail from magnetic field
signatures

Jones GH(1), Balogh A, Horbury TS.

Author information: 
(1)The Blackett Laboratory, Imperial College, London, UK. g.h.jones@ic.ac.uk

Observations of the varying orientations of comet tails led to the suggestion of 
the existence of the solar wind--a continuous outflow of ionized material from
the Sun. It is now well established that gas from comets is ionized by several
processes and joins the solar wind, forming an ion (plasma) tail that points away
from the Sun. The plasma environments of three comets have been measured in situ,
but only in the upstream direction or less than 8,000 km downstream of the
nucleus. Here we report a fortuitous crossing by a spacecraft of the plasma tail 
of comet Hyakutake (C/1996 B2), at a distance of more than 3.8 astronomical units
(550 million kilometres) from its nucleus. This surpasses the tail length of 2 AU
determined for the Great March Comet of 1843 (C/1843 D1). Our measurements reveal
that, at this distance, the tail of comet Hyakutake was a structured entity at
least 7 million kilometres in diameter.

DOI: 10.1038/35007011 
PMID: 10766233 


746. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):567-73.

Semaphorin 3A is a chemoattractant for cortical apical dendrites.

Polleux F(1), Morrow T, Ghosh A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21205-2185, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):557, 559.

The apical dendrites of pyramidal neurons integrate inputs from various cortical 
layers and are central to information processing. Here we show that the growth of
apical dendrites towards the pial surface is regulated by a diffusible
chemoattractant present at high levels near the marginal zone. A major component 
of this signal is semaphorin 3A (Sema3A), which was previously characterized as a
chemorepellant for cortical axons. Soluble guanylate cyclase is asymmetrically
localized to the developing apical dendrite, and is required for the
chemoattractive effect of Sema3A. Thus the asymmetric localization of soluble
guanylate cyclase confers distinct Sema3A responses to axons and dendrites. These
observations reveal a mechanism by which a single chemotropic signal can pattern 
both axons and dendrites during development.

DOI: 10.1038/35007001 
PMID: 10766232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):518-25.

Structural basis for the anticoagulant activity of the thrombin-thrombomodulin
complex.

Fuentes-Prior P(1), Iwanaga Y, Huber R, Pagila R, Rumennik G, Seto M, Morser J,
Light DR, Bode W.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Biochemie, Martinsried, Germany.
fuentes@biochem.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):449-50.

The serine proteinase alpha-thrombin causes blood clotting through proteolytic
cleavage of fibrinogen and protease-activated receptors and amplifies its own
generation by activating the essential clotting factors V and VIII.
Thrombomodulin, a transmembrane thrombin receptor with six contiguous epidermal
growth factor-like domains (TME1-6), profoundly alters the substrate specificity 
of thrombin from pro- to anticoagulant by activating protein C. Activated protein
C then deactivates the coagulation cascade by degrading activated factors V and
VIII. The thrombin-thrombomodulin complex inhibits fibrinolysis by activating the
procarboxypeptidase thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor. Here we present 
the 2.3 A crystal structure of human alpha-thrombin bound to the smallest
thrombomodulin fragment required for full protein-C co-factor activity, TME456.
The Y-shaped thrombomodulin fragment binds to thrombin's anion-binding exosite-I,
preventing binding of procoagulant substrates. Thrombomodulin binding does not
seem to induce marked allosteric structural rearrangements at the thrombin active
site. Rather, docking of a protein C model to thrombin-TME456 indicates that
TME45 may bind substrates in such a manner that their zymogen-activation cleavage
sites are presented optimally to the unaltered thrombin active site.

DOI: 10.1038/35006683 
PMID: 10761923  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):515-8.

Yeast Sm-like proteins function in mRNA decapping and decay.

Tharun S(1), He W, Mayes AE, Lennertz P, Beggs JD, Parker R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology and Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, University of Arizona, Tucson 85721, USA.

One of the main mechanisms of messenger RNA degradation in eukaryotes occurs by
deadenylation-dependent decapping which leads to 5'-to-3' decay. A family of
Sm-like (Lsm) proteins has been identified, members of which contain the 'Sm'
sequence motif, form a complex with U6 small nuclear RNA and are required for
pre-mRNA splicing. Here we show that mutations in seven yeast Lsm proteins
(Lsm1-Lsm7) also lead to inhibition of mRNA decapping. In addition, the Lsm1-Lsm7
proteins co-immunoprecipitate with the mRNA decapping enzyme (Dcp1), a decapping 
activator (Pat1/Mrt1) and with mRNA. This indicates that the Lsm proteins may
promote decapping by interactions with the mRNA and the decapping machinery. In
addition, the Lsm complex that functions in mRNA decay appears to be distinct
from the U6-associated Lsm complex, indicating that Lsm proteins form specific
complexes that affect different aspects of mRNA metabolism.

DOI: 10.1038/35006676 
PMID: 10761922  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):510-4.

DNA repair protein Ku80 suppresses chromosomal aberrations and malignant
transformation.

Difilippantonio MJ(1), Zhu J, Chen HT, Meffre E, Nussenzweig MC, Max EE, Ried T, 
Nussenzweig A.

Author information: 
(1)Genetics Department, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):823-5.

Cancer susceptibility genes have been classified into two groups: gatekeepers and
caretakers. Gatekeepers are genes that control cell proliferation and death,
whereas caretakers are DNA repair genes whose inactivation leads to genetic
instability. Abrogation of both caretaker and gatekeeper function markedly
increases cancer susceptibility. Although the importance of Ku80 in DNA
double-strand break repair is well established, neither Ku80 nor other components
of the non-homologous end-joining pathway are known to have a caretaker role in
maintaining genomic stability. Here we show that mouse cells deficient for Ku80
display a marked increase in chromosomal aberrations, including breakage,
translocations and aneuploidy. Despite the observed chromosome instabilities,
Ku80-/- mice have only a slightly earlier onset of cancer. Loss of p53 synergizes
with Ku80 to promote tumorigenesis such that all Ku80-/- p53-/- mice succumb to
disseminated pro-B-cell lymphoma before three months of age. Tumours result from 
a specific set of chromosomal translocations and gene amplifications involving
IgH and c-Myc, reminiscent of Burkitt's lymphoma. We conclude that Ku80 is a
caretaker gene that maintains the integrity of the genome by a mechanism
involving the suppression of chromosomal rearrangements.

DOI: 10.1038/35006670 
PMCID: PMC4721590
PMID: 10761921  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):506-10.

The duration of antigen receptor signalling determines CD4+ versus CD8+ T-cell
lineage fate.

Yasutomo K(1), Doyle C, Miele L, Fuchs C, Germain RN.

Author information: 
(1)Lymphocyte Biology Section, Laboratory of Immunology, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature 2000 Sep 7;407(6800):110.

Signals elicited by binding of the T-cell antigen receptor and the CD4/CD8
co-receptor to major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules control the
generation of CD4+ (helper) or CD8+ (cytotoxic) T cells from thymic precursors
that initially express both co-receptor proteins. These precursors have unique,
clonally distributed T-cell receptors with unpredictable specificity for the
self-MHC molecules involved in this differentiation process. However, the mature 
T cells that emerge express only the CD4 (MHC class II-binding) or CD8 (MHC class
I-binding) co-receptor that complements the MHC class-specificity of the T-cell
receptor. How this matching of co-receptor-defined lineage and T-cell-receptor
specificity is achieved remains unknown, as does whether signalling by the T-cell
receptors, co-receptors and/or general cell-fate regulators such as Notch-1
contributes to initial lineage choice, to subsequent differentiation processes or
to both. Here we show that the CD4 versus CD8 lineage fate of immature thymocytes
is controlled by the co-receptor-influenced duration of initial T-cell
receptor-dependent signalling. Notch-1 does not appear to be essential for this
fate determination, but it is selectively required for CD8+ T-cell maturation
after commitment directed by T-cell receptors. This indicates that the signals
constraining CD4 versus CD8 lineage decisions are distinct from those that
support subsequent differentiation events such as silencing of co-receptor loci.

DOI: 10.1038/35006664 
PMID: 10761920  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):502-6.

Complete DNA sequence of a serogroup A strain of Neisseria meningitidis Z2491.

Parkhill J(1), Achtman M, James KD, Bentley SD, Churcher C, Klee SR, Morelli G,
Basham D, Brown D, Chillingworth T, Davies RM, Davis P, Devlin K, Feltwell T,
Hamlin N, Holroyd S, Jagels K, Leather S, Moule S, Mungall K, Quail MA,
Rajandream MA, Rutherford KM, Simmonds M, Skelton J, Whitehead S, Spratt BG,
Barrell BG.

Author information: 
(1)The Sanger Centre, The Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, UK.
parkhill@sanger.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):451-2.

Neisseria meningitidis causes bacterial meningitis and is therefore responsible
for considerable morbidity and mortality in both the developed and the developing
world. Meningococci are opportunistic pathogens that colonize the nasopharynges
and oropharynges of asymptomatic carriers. For reasons that are still mostly
unknown, they occasionally gain access to the blood, and subsequently to the
cerebrospinal fluid, to cause septicaemia and meningitis. N. meningitidis strains
are divided into a number of serogroups on the basis of the immunochemistry of
their capsular polysaccharides; serogroup A strains are responsible for major
epidemics and pandemics of meningococcal disease, and therefore most of the
morbidity and mortality associated with this disease. Here we have determined the
complete genome sequence of a serogroup A strain of Neisseria meningitidis,
Z2491. The sequence is 2,184,406 base pairs in length, with an overall G+C
content of 51.8%, and contains 2,121 predicted coding sequences. The most notable
feature of the genome is the presence of many hundreds of repetitive elements,
ranging from short repeats, positioned either singly or in large multiple arrays,
to insertion sequences and gene duplications of one kilobase or more. Many of
these repeats appear to be involved in genome fluidity and antigenic variation in
this important human pathogen.

DOI: 10.1038/35006655 
PMID: 10761919  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):498-502.

Glutamate spillover suppresses inhibition by activating presynaptic mGluRs.

Mitchell SJ(1), Silver RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University College London, UK.

Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) found on synaptic terminals throughout 
the brain are thought to be important in modulating neurotransmission. Activation
of mGluRs by synaptically released glutamate depresses glutamate release from
excitatory terminals but the physiological role of mGluRs on inhibitory terminals
is unclear. We have investigated activation of mGluRs on inhibitory terminals
within the cerebellar glomerulus, a structure in which GABA (gamma-aminobutyric
acid)-releasing inhibitory terminals and glutamatergic excitatory terminals are
in close apposition and make axo-dendritic synapses onto granule cells. Here we
show that 'spillover' of glutamate, which is released from excitatory mossy
fibres, inhibits GABA release from Golgi cell terminals by activating presynaptic
mGluRs under physiological conditions. The magnitude of the depression of the
inhibitory postsynaptic current is dependent on the frequency of mossy fibre
stimulation, reaching 50% at 100 Hz. Furthermore, the duration of inhibitory
postsynaptic current depression mirrors the time course of mossy fibre activity. 
Our results establish that mGluRs on inhibitory interneuron axons sense the
activity of neighbouring excitatory synapses. This heterosynaptic mechanism is
likely to boost the efficacy of active excitatory fibres by locally reducing the 
level of inhibition.

DOI: 10.1038/35006649 
PMID: 10761918  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):495-8.

The evolution of syntactic communication.

Nowak MA(1), Plotkin JB, Jansen VA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, New Jersey 08540, USA. nowak@ias.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):441-2.

Animal communication is typically non-syntactic, which means that signals refer
to whole situations. Human language is syntactic, and signals consist of discrete
components that have their own meanings. Syntax is a prerequisite for taking
advantage of combinatorics, that is, "making infinite use of finite means. The
vast expressive power of human language would be impossible without syntax, and
the transition from non-syntactic to syntactic communication was an essential
step in the evolution of human language. We aim to understand the evolutionary
dynamics of this transition and to analyse how natural selection can guide it.
Here we present a model for the population dynamics of language evolution, define
the basic reproductive ratio of words and calculate the maximum size of a
lexicon. Syntax allows larger repertoires and the possibility to formulate
messages that have not been learned beforehand. Nevertheless, according to our
model natural selection can only favour the emergence of syntax if the number of 
required signals exceeds a threshold value. This result might explain why only
humans evolved syntactic communication and hence complex language.

DOI: 10.1038/35006635 
PMID: 10761917  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):493-5.

Pervasive density-dependent recruitment enhances seedling diversity in a tropical
forest.

Harms KE(1), Wright SJ, Calderón O, Hernández A, Herre EA.

Author information: 
(1)Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Balboa, Republic of Panamá.

Negative density-dependent recruitment of seedlings, that is, seeds of a given
species are less likely to become established seedlings if the density of that
species is high, has been proposed to be an important mechanism contributing to
the extraordinary diversity of tropical tree communities because it can
potentially prevent any particular species from usurping all available space,
either in close proximity to seed sources or at relatively larger spatial scales.
However, density-dependent recruitment does not necessarily enhance community
diversity. Furthermore, although density-dependent effects have been found at
some life stages in some species, no study has shown that density-dependent
recruitment affects community diversity. Here we report the results of
observations in a lowland, moist forest in the Republic of Panamá in which the
species identities of 386,027 seeds that arrived at 200 seed traps were compared 
with the species identities of 13,068 seedlings that recruited into adjacent
plots over a 4-year period. Across the 200 sites, recruit seedling diversity was 
significantly higher than seed diversity. Part of this difference was explained
by interspecies differences in average recruitment success. Even after accounting
for these differences, however, negative density-dependent recruitment
contributes significantly to the increase in diversity from seeds to seedling
recruits.

DOI: 10.1038/35006630 
PMID: 10761916  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):490-3.

Molecular analysis of Neanderthal DNA from the northern Caucasus.

Ovchinnikov IV(1), Götherström A, Romanova GP, Kharitonov VM, Lidén K, Goodwin W.

Author information: 
(1)Human Identification Centre, University of Glasgow, Scotland, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):453-4.

The expansion of premodern humans into western and eastern Europe approximately
40,000 years before the present led to the eventual replacement of the
Neanderthals by modern humans approximately 28,000 years ago. Here we report the 
second mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) analysis of a Neanderthal, and the first such
analysis on clearly dated Neanderthal remains. The specimen is from one of the
eastern-most Neanderthal populations, recovered from Mezmaiskaya Cave in the
northern Caucasus. Radiocarbon dating estimated the specimen to be approximately 
29,000 years old and therefore from one of the latest living Neanderthals. The
sequence shows 3.48% divergence from the Feldhofer Neanderthal. Phylogenetic
analysis places the two Neanderthals from the Caucasus and western Germany
together in a clade that is distinct from modern humans, suggesting that their
mtDNA types have not contributed to the modern human mtDNA pool. Comparison with 
modern populations provides no evidence for the multiregional hypothesis of
modern human evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/35006625 
PMID: 10761915  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):488-90.

Hf-Nd isotope evidence for a transient dynamic regime in the early terrestrial
mantle

Albarede F(1), Blichert-Toft J, Vervoort JD, Gleason JD, Rosing M.

Author information: 
(1)Ecole Normale Superieure de Lyon, France. albarede@ens-lyon.fr

Modern basalts have seemingly lost all 'memory' of the primitive Earth's mantle
except for an ambiguous isotopic signal observed in some rare gases. Although the
Earth is expected to have reached a thermal steady state within several hundred
million years of accretion, it is not known how and when the initial chemical
fractionations left over from planetary accretion (and perhaps a stage involving 
a magma ocean) were overshadowed by fractionations imposed by modern-style
geodynamics. Because of the lack of samples older than 4 Gyr, this early dynamic 
regime of the Earth is poorly understood. Here we compare published Hf-Nd isotope
data on supracrustals from Isua, Greenland, with similar data on lunar rocks and 
the SNC (martian) meteorites, and show that, about 3.8 Gyr ago, the geochemical
signature of the Archaean mantle was partly inherited from the initial
differentiation of the Earth. The observed features seem to indicate that the
planet at that time was still losing a substantial amount of primordial heat. The
survival of remnants from an early layering in the modern deep mantle may account
for some unexplained seismological, thermal and geochemical characteristics of
the Earth as observed today.

DOI: 10.1038/35006621 
PMID: 10761914 


757. Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):484-7.

Effect of climate change relative to ozone depletion on UV exposure in subarctic 
lakes.

Pienitz R(1), Vincent WF.

Author information: 
(1)Centre d'Etudes Nordiques, Université Laval, Québec, Canada.
reinhard.pienitz@cen.ulaval.ca

The effect of stratospheric ozone depletion on increases in ambient levels of
solar ultraviolet (UV) radiation in high-latitude regions' has raised concerns
about the response of northern ecosystems to environmental change. The
concentration of coloured dissolved organic material, which is derived from
terrestrial vegetation and acts as a screen for ultraviolet radiation, is low in 
high-latitude lakes. The underwater light environment in these lakes is therefore
likely to be sensitive to small variations in the supply of this material, in
addition to the effects of ozone depletion. Here we use fossil diatom assemblages
in combination with bio-optical models to estimate the magnitude of past
variations in the underwater light regime of a lake at the boreal tree line. We
find large shifts in underwater UV-B, UV-A and photosynthetically available
radiation associated with changes in the input of coloured dissolved organic
material into subarctic lakes during the Holocene. The inferred changes in
biological exposure to UV radiation were at least two orders of magnitude greater
than those associated with moderate (30%) ozone depletion. Our findings indicate 
that freshwater ecosystems at present located across vegetation gradients will
experience significant shifts in underwater spectral irradiance through the
effects of climate change on catchment vegetation and the export of coloured
dissolved organic material.

DOI: 10.1038/35006616 
PMID: 10761913  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):481-4.

Molecular-scale interface engineering for polymer light-emitting diodes

Ho PK(1), Kim JS, Burroughes JH, Becker H, Li SF, Brown TM, Cacialli F, Friend
RH.

Author information: 
(1)Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge, UK.

Achieving balanced electron-hole injection and perfect recombination of the
charge carriers is central to the design of efficient polymer light-emitting
diodes (LEDs). A number of approaches have focused on modification of the
injection contacts, for example by incorporating an additional conducting-polymer
layer at the indium-tin oxide (ITO) anode. Recently, the layer-by-layer
polyelectrolyte deposition route has been developed for the fabrication of
ultrathin polymer layers. Using this route, we previously incorporated ultrathin 
(<100 A) charge-injection interfacial layers in polymer LEDs. Here we show how
molecular-scale engineering of these interlayers to form stepped and graded
electronic profiles can lead to remarkably efficient single-layer polymer LEDs.
These devices exhibit nearly balanced injection, near-perfect recombination, and 
greatly reduced pre-turn-on leakage currents. A green-emitting LED comprising a
poly(p-phenylene vinylene) derivative sandwiched between a calcium cathode and
the modified ITO anode yields an external forward efficiency of 6.0 per cent
(estimated internal efficiency, 15-20 per cent) at a luminance of 1,600 candelas 
per m2 at 5 V.

DOI: 10.1038/35006610 
PMID: 10761912 


759. Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):478-81.

A soluble and air-stable organic semiconductor with high electron mobility

Katz HE(1), Lovinger AJ, Johnson J, Kloc C, Siegrist T, Li W, Lin YY, Dodabalapur
A.

Author information: 
(1)Bell Laboratories-Lucent Technologies, New Jersey 07974, USA. hek@lucent.com

Electronic devices based on organic semiconductors offer an attractive
alternative to conventional inorganic devices due to potentially lower costs,
simpler packaging and compatibility with flexible substrates. As is the case for 
silicon-based microelectronics, the use of complementary logic elements-requiring
n- and p-type semiconductors whose majority charge carriers are electrons and
holes, respectively-is expected to be crucial to achieving low-power, high-speed 
performance. Similarly, the electron-segregating domains of photovoltaic
assemblies require both n- and p-type semiconductors. Stable organic p-type
semiconductors are known, but practically useful n-type semiconductor materials
have proved difficult to develop, reflecting the unfavourable electrochemical
properties of known, electron-demanding polymers. Although high electron
mobilities have been obtained for organic materials, these values are usually
obtained for single crystals at low temperatures, whereas practically useful
field-effect transistors (FETs) will have to be made of polycrystalline films
that remain functional at room temperature. A few organic n-type semiconductors
that can be used in FETs are known, but these suffer from low electron mobility, 
poor stability in air and/or demanding processing conditions. Here we report a
crystallographically engineered naphthalenetetracarboxylic diimide derivative
that allows us to fabricate solution-cast n-channel FETs with promising
performance at ambient conditions. By integrating our n-channel FETs with
solution-deposited p-channel FETs, we are able to produce a complementary
inverter circuit whose active layers are deposited entirely from the liquid
phase. We expect that other complementary circuit designs can be realized by this
approach as well.

DOI: 10.1038/35006603 
PMID: 10761911 


760. Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):476-8.

Anisotropic spinodal dewetting as a route to self-assembly of patterned surfaces

Higgins AM(1), Jones RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Sheffield, UK.

The ability to pattern surfaces on a microscopic length scale is of importance
for technological applications such as the fabrication of microelectronic
circuits and digital storage media. Devices fabricated entirely from polymers are
now available, opening up the possibility of adapting polymer processing
technologies to fabricate cheap, large-area devices using non-lithographic
techniques--for example, by exploiting dewetting and phase separation in thin
films. But the final pattern adopted by the polymer film using such approaches
requires a template printed onto the substrate by optical lithography,
microcontact printing or vapour deposition. Here we describe a simple process for
patterning surfaces that does not require a template. Our method involves the
spinodal dewetting of a polymer surface by a thin polymer film, in which a liquid
film breaks up owing to the amplification of thermal fluctuations in film
thickness induced by dispersion forces. A preferred orientation is imposed on the
dewetting process simply by rubbing the substrate, and this gives rise to
patterns of remarkably well-aligned polymer lines. The width of these lines is
well-defined, and is controlled by the magnitude of the dispersion forces at the 
interface, which in turn can be varied by varying the thickness of the polymer
substrate. We expect that further work will make it possible to optimize the
degree of order in the final morphology.

DOI: 10.1038/35006597 
PMID: 10761910 


761. Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):473-6.

Imaging of localized electronic states in the quantum Hall regime

Zhitenev NB(1), Fulton TA, Yacoby A, Hess HF, Pfeiffer LN, West KW.

Author information: 
(1)Bell Laboratories, Lucent Technologies, New Jersey 07974, USA.
zhiten@physics.bell-labs.com

The concept of electron localization has long been accepted to be essential to
the physics of the quantum Hall effect in a two-dimensional electron gas. The
exact quantization of the Hall resistance and the zero of the diagonal resistance
over a range of filling factors close to integral are attributed to the
localization of electronic states at the Fermi level in the interior of the gas. 
As the electron density is changed, charging of the individual localized states
may occur by single-electron jumps, causing associated oscillations in the local 
electrostatic potential. Here we search for such a manifestation of localized
states in the quantum Hall regime, using a scanning electrometer probe. We
observe localized potential signals, at numerous locations, that oscillate with
changing electron density. In general, the corresponding spatial patterns are
complex, but well-defined objects are often seen which evidently arise from
individual localized states. These objects interact, and at times form a
lattice-like arrangement.

DOI: 10.1038/35006591 
PMID: 10761909 


762. Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):471-3.

Double-quantum vortex in superfluid 3He-A

Blaauwgeers R(1), Eltsov VB, Krusius M, Ruohio JJ, Schanen R, Volovik GE.

Author information: 
(1)Low Temperature Laboratory, Helsinki University of Technology, Finland.

Linear defects are generic in continuous media. In quantum systems they appear as
topological line defects which are associated with a circulating persistent
current. In relativistic quantum field theories they are known as cosmic strings,
in superconductors as quantized flux lines, and in superfluids and low-density
Bose-Einstein condensates as quantized vortex lines. A conventional quantized
vortex line consists of a central core around which the phase of the order
parameter winds by 27(pi)n, while within the core the order parameter vanishes or
is depleted from the bulk value. Usually vortices are singly quantized (that is, 
have n = 1). But it has been theoretically predicted that, in superfluid 3He-A,
vortex lines are possible that have n = 2 and continuous structure, so that the
orientation of the multicomponent order parameter changes smoothly throughout the
vortex while the amplitude remains constant. Here we report direct proof, based
on high-resolution nuclear magnetic resonance measurements, that the most common 
vortex line in 3He-A has n = 2. One vortex line after another is observed to form
in a regular periodic process, similar to a phase-slip in the Josephson effect.

DOI: 10.1038/35006583 
PMID: 10761908 


763. Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):465-70.

Peptide exosite inhibitors of factor VIIa as anticoagulants.

Dennis MS(1), Eigenbrot C, Skelton NJ, Ultsch MH, Santell L, Dwyer MA, O'Connell 
MP, Lazarus RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Protein Engineering, Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):449-50.

Potent anticoagulants have been derived by targeting the tissue factor-factor
VIIa complex with naive peptide libraries displayed on M13 phage. The peptides
specifically block the activation of factor X with a median inhibitory
concentration of 1 nM and selectively inhibit tissue-factor-dependent clotting.
The peptides do not bind to the active site of factor VIIa; rather, they work by 
binding to an exosite on the factor VIIa protease domain, and non-competitively
inhibit activation of factor X and amidolytic activity. One such peptide (E-76)
has a well defined structure in solution determined by NMR spectroscopy that is
similar to the X-ray crystal structure when complexed with factor VIIa. These
structural and functional studies indicate an allosteric 'switch' mechanism of
inhibition involving an activation loop of factor VIIa and represent a new
framework for developing inhibitors of serine proteases.

DOI: 10.1038/35006574 
PMID: 10761907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Nature. 2000 Mar 30;404(6777):459-64.

Resolving the extragalactic hard X-ray background

Mushotzky RF(1), Cowie LL, Barger AJ, Arnaud KA.

Author information: 
(1)NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA.

The origin of the hard (2-10 keV) X-ray background has been a mystery for over 35
years. Most of the soft X-ray background has been resolved into individual
sources (mainly quasars), but these sources do not have the spectral energy
distribution required to match the spectrum of the X-ray background as a whole.
Here we report the results of a deep survey, using the Chandra satellite, in
which the detected hard X-ray sources account for at least 75 per cent of the
hard X-ray background. The mean X-ray spectral energy distribution of these
sources is in good agreement with that of the background. Moreover, most of those
hard X-ray sources are associated unambiguously with either the nuclei of
otherwise normal bright galaxies, or with optically faint sources. The latter
could be active nuclei in dust-enshrouded galaxies or a population of quasars at 
extremely high redshift.

DOI: 10.1038/35006564 
PMID: 10761906 


765. Nature. 2000 Mar 23;404(6776):414-7.

The Gcn5 bromodomain co-ordinates nucleosome remodelling.

Syntichaki P(1), Topalidou I, Thireos G.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, FORTH, and Department of
Biology, University of Crete, Heraklion, Greece.

The access of transcription factors to eukaryotic promoters often requires
modification of their chromatin structure, which is accomplished by the action of
two general classes of multiprotein complexes. One class contains histone
acetyltransferases (HATs), such as Gcn5 in the SAGA complex, which acetylate
nucleosomal histones. The second class contains ATPases, such as Swi2 in the
Swi/Snf complex, which provide the energy for nucleosome remodelling. In several 
promoters these two complexes cooperate but their functional linkage is unknown. 
A protein module that is present in all nuclear HATs, the bromodomain, could
provide such a link. The recently reported in vitro binding of a HAT bromodomain 
with acetylated lysines within H3 and H4 amino-terminal peptides indicates that
this interaction may constitute a targeting step for events that follow histone
acetylation. Here we use a suitable promoter to show that bromodomain residues
essential for acetyl-lysine binding are not required in vivo for Gcn5-mediated
histone acetylation but are fundamental for the subsequent Swi2-dependent
nucleosome remodelling and consequent transcriptional activation. We show that
the Gcn5 bromodomain stabilizes the Swi/Snf complex on this promoter.

DOI: 10.1038/35006136 
PMID: 10746732  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Nature. 2000 Mar 23;404(6776):411-4.

Betaglycan binds inhibin and can mediate functional antagonism of activin
signalling.

Lewis KA(1), Gray PC, Blount AL, MacConell LA, Wiater E, Bilezikjian LM, Vale W.

Author information: 
(1)Clayton Foundation Laboratories for Peptide Biology, The Salk Institute for
Biological Studies, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Activins and inhibins, structurally related members of the TGF-beta superfamily
of growth and differentiation factors, are mutually antagonistic regulators of
reproductive and other functions. Activins bind specific type II receptor serine 
kinases (ActRII or IIB) to promote the recruitment and phosphorylation of the
type I receptor serine kinase, ALK4 (refs 7-9), which then regulates gene
expression by activating Smad proteins. Inhibins also bind type II activin
receptors but do not recruit ALK4, providing a competitive model for the
antagonism of activin by inhibin. Inhibins fail to antagonize activin in some
tissues and cells, however, suggesting that additional components are required
for inhibin action. Here we show that the type III TGF-beta receptor, betaglycan,
can function as an inhibin co-receptor with ActRII. Betaglycan binds inhibin with
high affinity and enhances binding in cells co-expressing ActRII and betaglycan. 
Inhibin also forms crosslinked complexes with both recombinant and endogenously
expressed betaglycan and ActRII. Finally, betaglycan confers inhibin sensitivity 
to cell lines that otherwise respond poorly to this hormone. The ability of
betaglycan to facilitate inhibin antagonism of activin provides a variation on
the emerging roles of proteoglycans as co-receptors modulating ligand-receptor
sensitivity, selectivity and function.

DOI: 10.1038/35006129 
PMID: 10746731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Nature. 2000 Mar 23;404(6776):407-11.

Control of TH2 polarization by the chemokine monocyte chemoattractant protein-1.

Gu L(1), Tseng S, Horner RM, Tam C, Loda M, Rollins BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Adult Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Brigham & Women's 
Hospital, and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Activated T lymphocytes differentiate into effector cells tailored to meet
disparate challenges to host integrity. For example, type 1 and type 2 helper
(T(H)1 and T(H)2) cells secrete cytokines that enhance cell-mediated and humoral 
immunity, respectively. The chemokine monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) 
can stimulate interleukin-4 production and its overexpression is associated with 
defects in cell-mediated immunity, indicating that it might be involved in T(H)2 
polarization. Here we show that MCP-1-deficient mice are unable to mount T(H)2
responses. Lymph node cells from immunized MCP-1(-/-) mice synthesize extremely
low levels of interleukin-4, interleukin-5 and interleukin-10, but normal amounts
of interferon-gamma and interleukin-2. Consequently, these mice do not accomplish
the immunoglobulin subclass switch that is characteristic of T(H)2 responses and 
are resistant to Leishmania major. These effects are direct rather than due to
abnormal cell migration, because the trafficking of naive T cells is undisturbed 
in MCP-1(-/-) mice despite the presence of MCP-1-expressing cells in secondary
lymphoid organs of wild-type mice. Thus, MCP-1 influences both innate immunity,
through effects on monocytes, and adaptive immunity, through control of T helper 
cell polarization.

DOI: 10.1038/35006097 
PMID: 10746730  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Nature. 2000 Mar 23;404(6776):402-7.

PKC-theta is required for TCR-induced NF-kappaB activation in mature but not
immature T lymphocytes.

Sun Z(1), Arendt CW, Ellmeier W, Schaeffer EM, Sunshine MJ, Gandhi L, Annes J,
Petrzilka D, Kupfer A, Schwartzberg PL, Littman DR.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Pathogenesis Program, Skirball Institute of Biomolecular Medicine,
New York University School of Medicine, New York 10016, USA.

Productive interaction of a T lymphocyte with an antigen-presenting cell results 
in the clustering of the T-cell antigen receptor (TCR) and the recruitment of a
large signalling complex to the site of cell-cell contact. Subsequent signal
transduction resulting in cytokine gene expression requires the activation of one
or more of the multiple isoenzymes of serine/threonine-specific protein kinase C 
(PKC). Among the several PKC isoenzymes expressed in T cells, PKC-theta is unique
in being rapidly recruited to the site of TCR clustering. Here we show that
PKC-theta is essential for TCR-mediated T-cell activation, but is dispensable
during TCR-dependent thymocyte development. TCR-initiated NF-kappaB activation
was absent from PKC-theta(-/-) mature T lymphocytes, but was intact in
thymocytes. Activation of NF-kappaB by tumour-necrosis factor alpha and
interleukin-1 was unaffected in the mutant mice. Although studies in T-cell lines
had suggested that PKC-theta regulates activation of the JNK signalling pathway, 
induction of JNK was normal in T cells from mutant mice. These results indicate
that PKC-theta functions in a unique pathway that links the TCR signalling
complex to the activation of NF-kappaB in mature T lymphocytes.

DOI: 10.1038/35006090 
PMID: 10746729  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Nature. 2000 Mar 23;404(6776):398-402.

Interleukin-1 polymorphisms associated with increased risk of gastric cancer.

El-Omar EM(1), Carrington M, Chow WH, McColl KE, Bream JH, Young HA, Herrera J,
Lissowska J, Yuan CC, Rothman N, Lanyon G, Martin M, Fraumeni JF Jr, Rabkin CS.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, National Cancer Institute,
Bethesda, Maryland, USA. elomare@mail.nih.gov

Erratum in
    Nature 2001 Jul 5;412(6842):99.

Helicobacter pylori infection is associated with a variety of clinical outcomes
including gastric cancer and duodenal ulcer disease. The reasons for this
variation are not clear, but the gastric physiological response is influenced by 
the severity and anatomical distribution of gastritis induced by H. pylori. Thus,
individuals with gastritis predominantly localized to the antrum retain normal
(or even high) acid secretion, whereas individuals with extensive corpus
gastritis develop hypochlorhydria and gastric atrophy, which are presumptive
precursors of gastric cancer. Here we report that interleukin-1 gene cluster
polymorphisms suspected of enhancing production of interleukin-1-beta are
associated with an increased risk of both hypochlorhydria induced by H. pylori
and gastric cancer. Two of these polymorphism are in near-complete linkage
disequilibrium and one is a TATA-box polymorphism that markedly affects
DNA-protein interactions in vitro. The association with disease may be explained 
by the biological properties of interleukin-1-beta, which is an important
pro-inflammatory cytokine and a powerful inhibitor of gastric acid secretion.
Host genetic factors that affect interleukin-1-beta may determine why some
individuals infected with H. pylori develop gastric cancer while others do not.

DOI: 10.1038/35006081 
PMID: 10746728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Nature. 2000 Mar 23;404(6776):394-8.

A Drosophila model of Parkinson's disease.

Feany MB(1), Bender WW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. mel_feany@hms.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Mar 23;404(6776):341, 343.

Parkinson's disease is a common neurodegenerative syndrome characterized by loss 
of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, formation of filamentous
intraneuronal inclusions (Lewy bodies) and an extrapyramidal movement disorder.
Mutations in the alpha-synuclein gene are linked to familial Parkinson's disease 
and alpha-synuclein accumulates in Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites. Here we express
normal and mutant forms of alpha-synuclein in Drosophila and produce adult-onset 
loss of dopaminergic neurons, filamentous intraneuronal inclusions containing
alpha-synuclein and locomotor dysfunction. Our Drosophila model thus
recapitulates the essential features of the human disorder, and makes possible a 
powerful genetic approach to Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1038/35006074 
PMID: 10746727  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Nature. 2000 Mar 23;404(6776):390-4.

Representation of a perceptual decision in developing oculomotor commands.

Gold JI(1), Shadlen MN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, and Regional Primate Research Center,
University of Washington, Seattle 98195-7290, USA.

Behaviour often depends on the ability to make categorical judgements about
sensory information acquired over time. Such judgements require a comparison of
the evidence favouring the alternatives, but how the brain forms these
comparisons is unknown. Here we show that in a visual discrimination task, the
accumulating balance of sensory evidence favouring one interpretation over
another is evident in the neural circuits that generate the behavioural response.
We trained monkeys to make a direction judgement about dynamic random-dot motions
and to indicate their judgement with an eye movement to a visual target. We
interrupted motion viewing with electrical microstimulation of the frontal eye
field and analysed the resulting, evoked eye movements for evidence of ongoing
activity associated with the oculomotor response. Evoked eye movements deviated
in the direction of the monkey's judgement. The magnitude of the deviation
depended on motion strength and viewing time. The oculomotor signals responsible 
for these deviations reflected the accumulated motion information that informed
the monkey's choices on the discrimination task. Thus, for this task, decision
formation and motor preparation appear to share a common level of neural
organization.

DOI: 10.1038/35006062 
PMID: 10746726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Nature. 2000 Mar 23;404(6776):388-90.

Low variability in a Y-linked plant gene and its implications for Y-chromosome
evolution.

Filatov DA(1), Monéger F, Negrutiu I, Charlesworth D.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cell, Animal, and Population Biology, University of Edinburgh,
UK.

Sex chromosomes have evolved independently in several different groups of
organisms, but they share common features, including genetic degeneration of the 
Y chromosome. Suppression of recombination between ancestral proto-X and proto-Y 
chromosomes is thought to have led to their gradual divergence, and to
degeneration of the Y chromosome, but the evolutionary forces responsible are
unknown. In non-recombining Y chromosomes, deleterious mutations may be carried
to fixation by linked advantageous mutations ("selective sweeps"). Occurrence of 
deleterious mutations may drive "Muller's ratchet" (stochastic loss of
chromosomes with the fewest mutations). Selective elimination of deleterious
mutations, causing "background selection" may accelerate stochastic fixation of
mildly detrimental mutations. All these processes lower effective population
sizes, and therefore reduce variability of genes in evolving Y chromosomes. We
have studied DNA diversity and divergence in a recently described X- and Y-linked
gene pair (SLX-1 and SLY-1) of the plant Silene latifolia to obtain evidence
about the early stages of Y degeneration. Here we show that DNA polymorphism in
SLY-1 is 20-fold lower than in SLX-1, but the pattern of polymorphism does not
suggest a selective sweep.

DOI: 10.1038/35006057 
PMID: 10746725  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Nature. 2000 Mar 23;404(6776):385-7.

Predictive accuracy of population viability analysis in conservation biology.

Brook BW(1), O'Grady JJ, Chapman AP, Burgman MA, Akçakaya HR, Frankham R.

Author information: 
(1)Key Centre for Biodiversity and Bioresources, Department of Biological
Sciences, Macquarie University, New South Wales, Australia.
barry.brook@ntu.edu.au

Population viability analysis (PVA) is widely applied in conservation biology to 
predict extinction risks for threatened species and to compare alternative
options for their management. It can also be used as a basis for listing species 
as endangered under World Conservation Union criteria. However, there is
considerable scepticism regarding the predictive accuracy of PVA, mainly because 
of a lack of validation in real systems. Here we conducted a retrospective test
of PVA based on 21 long-term ecological studies--the first comprehensive and
replicated evaluation of the predictive powers of PVA. Parameters were estimated 
from the first half of each data set and the second half was used to evaluate the
performance of the model. Contrary to recent criticisms, we found that PVA
predictions were surprisingly accurate. The risk of population decline closely
matched observed outcomes, there was no significant bias, and population size
projections did not differ significantly from reality. Furthermore, the
predictions of the five PVA software packages were highly concordant. We conclude
that PVA is a valid and sufficiently accurate tool for categorizing and managing 
endangered species.

DOI: 10.1038/35006050 
PMID: 10746724  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Nature. 2000 Mar 23;404(6776):382-5.

Evidence that humans evolved from a knuckle-walking ancestor.

Richmond BG(1), Strait DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, The George Washington University, Washington, DC
20052, USA. brich@gwu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Mar 23;404(6776):339-40.
    Nature. 2001 Mar 15;410(6826):324-5; disussion 326.
    Nature. 2001 Mar 15;410(6826):325-6.

Bipedalism has traditionally been regarded as the fundamental adaptation that
sets hominids apart from other primates. Fossil evidence demonstrates that by 4.1
million years ago, and perhaps earlier, hominids exhibited adaptations to bipedal
walking. At present, however, the fossil record offers little information about
the origin of bipedalism, and despite nearly a century of research on existing
fossils and comparative anatomy, there is still no consensus concerning the mode 
of locomotion that preceded bipedalism. Here we present evidence that fossils
attributed to Australopithecus anamensis (KNM-ER 20419) and A. afarensis (AL
288-1) retain specialized wrist morphology associated with knuckle-walking. This 
distal radial morphology differs from that of later hominids and
non-knuckle-walking anthropoid primates, suggesting that knuckle-walking is a
derived feature of the African ape and human clade. This removes key
morphological evidence for a Pan-Gorilla clade, and suggests that bipedal
hominids evolved from a knuckle-walking ancestor that was already partly
terrestrial.

DOI: 10.1038/35006045 
PMID: 10746723  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Nature. 2000 Mar 23;404(6776):379-82.

Bonding and reactivity at oxide mineral surfaces from model aqueous complexes

Phillips BL(1), Casey WH, Karlsson M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science, University of
California, Davis 95616, USA.

The kinetic stability of oxide surfaces affects a broad range of physical
phenomena, including mineral dissolution and sorption reactions, stable-isotope
fractionation, and catalyst support degradation. Our knowledge of the rates of
these processes derives mostly from the rates of net mass transfer between the
bulk solid and fluid phases. But from such data it is difficult to determine
rates of elementary steps that are needed to test theoretical models. Here we
determine the rates of oxygen exchange between an aqueous fluid and specific
sites on the 'Al13' polyoxocation--AlO4Al12(OH)24(H2O)12(7+)--the structure of
which closely resembles the surfaces of some Al-(hydr)oxide minerals in soils and
catalyst supports. Extrapolation of these data to 298 K (and near pH 5.3) yields 
half-lives for oxygen on the complex that range from approximately 0.6
milliseconds for bound water to 41 seconds and 13 hours for the two distinct, but
structurally similar, bridging hydroxyls. This surprisingly large range of
labilities (approximately 10(7)) indicates that reactivity is very sensitive to
molecular structure. Moreover, these results indicate that well chosen aqueous
complexes provide important information to relate bonding to reactivity at
mineral surfaces.

DOI: 10.1038/35006036 
PMID: 10746722 


776. Nature. 2000 Mar 23;404(6776):376-9.

Extended surface chirality from supramolecular assemblies of adsorbed chiral
molecules

Lorenzo MO(1), Baddeley CJ, Muryn C, Raval R.

Author information: 
(1)Leverhulme Centre for Innovative Catalysis and Surface Science Centre,
Department of Chemistry, University of Liverpool, UK.

The increasing demand of the chemical and pharmaceutical industries for
enantiomerically pure compounds has spurred the development of a range of
so-called 'chiral technologies' (ref. 1), which aim to exert the ultimate control
over a chemical reaction by directing its enantioselectivity. Heterogeneous
enantioselective catalysis is particularly attractive because it allows the
production and ready separation of large quantities of chiral product while using
only small quantities of catalyst. Heterogeneous enantioselectivity is usually
induced by adsorbing chiral molecules onto catalytically active surfaces. A mimic
of one such catalyst is formed by adsorbing (R,R)-tartaric acid molecules on
Cu(110) surfaces: this generates a variety of surface phases, of which only one
is potentially catalytically active, and leaves the question of how adsorbed
chiral molecules give rise to enantioselectivity. Here we show that the active
phase consists of extended supramolecular assemblies of adsorbed (R,R)-tartaric
acid, which destroy existing symmetry elements of the underlying metal and
directly bestow chirality to the modified surface. The adsorbed assemblies create
chiral 'channels' exposing bare metal atoms, and it is these chiral spaces that
we believe to be responsible for imparting enantioselectivity, by forcing the
orientation of reactant molecules docking onto catalytically active metal sites. 
Our findings demonstrate that it is possible to sustain a single chiral domain
across an extended surface--provided that reflection domains of opposite
handedness are removed by a rigid and chiral local adsorption geometry, and that 
inequivalent rotation domains are removed by successful matching of the
rotational symmetry of the adsorbed molecule with that of the underlying metal
surface.

DOI: 10.1038/35006031 
PMID: 10746721 


777. Nature. 2000 Mar 23;404(6776):373-6.

Soft-mode hardening in SrTiO3 thin films

Sirenko AA(1), Bernhard C, Golnik A, Clark AM, Hao J, Si W, Xi XX.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park
16802, USA. sirenko@phys.psu.edu

Understanding the behaviour of the dielectric constant in ferroelectric thin
films remains a challenging problem. These ferroelectric materials have high
static dielectric constants, and so are important for their applications in
high-storage-density capacitor structures such as dynamic random access memory
(DRAM). But the dielectric constant tends to be significantly reduced in thin
films, thereby limiting the potential benefit of ferroelectrics for memory
devices. Extensive studies have shown that this phenomenon could be caused by a
'dead layer' of very low dielectric constant between the ferroeletric film and
the electrode. And, although very few direct measurements are in fact available, 
it has been recognized that the lattice dynamical properties in the thin films
should also play a key role in the reduction of the dielectric constant. Here we 
report far-infrared ellipsometry and low-frequency dielectric measurements in
SrTiO3 thin films, which demonstrate that the Lyddane-Sachs-Teller relation
between the optical-phonon eigenfrequencies and the dielectric constant is fully 
maintained, as is the case in the bulk material. This indicates that the dramatic
reduction of the dielectric constant is a consequence of a profound change of the
lattice dynamical properties, in particular of the reduced softening of its
lowest optical-phonon mode. Our results therefore provide a better understanding 
of the fundamental limitations of the dielectric constant values in ferroelectric
thin films.

DOI: 10.1038/35006023 
PMID: 10746720 


778. Nature. 2000 Mar 23;404(6776):371-3.

Storage of X-ray photons in a crystal resonator

Liss KD(1), Hock R, Gomm M, Waibel B, Magerl A, Krisch M, Tucoulou R.

Author information: 
(1)European Synchrotron Radiation Facility, Grenoble, France. liss@esrf.fr

The temporal structure and high brilliance of the X-ray beams produced by
third-generation synchrotrons open up new possibilities in time-dependent
diffraction and spectroscopy, where timescales down to the sub-nanosecond regime 
can now be accessed. These beam properties are such that one can envisage the
development of the X-ray equivalent of optical components, such as photon delay
lines and resonators, that have proved indispensable in a wide range of
experiments--for example, pump-probe and multiple-interaction experiments--and
(through shaping the temporal structure and repetition rate of the beams)
time-dependent measurements in crystallography, physics, biology and chemistry.
Optical resonators, such as those used in lasers, are available at wavelengths
from the visible to soft X-rays. Equivalent components for hard X-rays have been 
discussed for more than thirty years, but have yet to be realized. Here we report
the storage of hard X-ray photons (energy 15.817 keV) in a crystal resonator
formed by two plates of crystalline silicon. The photons are stored for as many
as 14 back-and-forth cycles within the resonator, each cycle separated by one
nanosecond.

DOI: 10.1038/35006017 
PMID: 10746719 


779. Nature. 2000 Mar 23;404(6776):368-70.

An algorithmic benchmark for quantum information processing

Knill E(1), Laflamme R, Martinez R, Tseng CH.

Author information: 
(1)Los Alamos National Laboratory, New Mexico 87545, USA. knill@lanl.gov

Quantum information processing offers potentially great advantages over classical
information processing, both for efficient algorithms and for secure
communication. Therefore, it is important to establish that scalable control of a
large number of quantum bits (qubits) can be achieved in practice. There are a
rapidly growing number of proposed device technologies for quantum information
processing. Of these technologies, those exploiting nuclear magnetic resonance
(NMR) have been the first to demonstrate non-trivial quantum algorithms with
small numbers of qubits. To compare different physical realizations of quantum
information processors, it is necessary to establish benchmark experiments that
are independent of the underlying physical system, and that demonstrate reliable 
and coherent control of a reasonable number of qubits. Here we report an
experimental realization of an algorithmic benchmark using an NMR technique that 
involves coherent manipulation of seven qubits. Moreover, our experimental
procedure can be used as a reliable and efficient method for creating a standard 
pseudopure state, the first step for implementing traditional quantum algorithms 
in liquid state NMR systems. The benchmark and the techniques can be adapted for 
use with other proposed quantum devices.

DOI: 10.1038/35006012 
PMID: 10746718 


780. Nature. 2000 Mar 23;404(6776):365-8.

Trapping an atom with single photons

Pinkse PW(1), Fischer T, Maunz P, Rempe G.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut fur Quantenoptik, Garching, Germany.

The creation of a photon-atom bound state was first envisaged for the case of an 
atom in a long-lived excited state inside a high-quality microwave cavity. In
practice, however, light forces in the microwave domain are insufficient to
support an atom against gravity. Although optical photons can provide forces of
the required magnitude, atomic decay rates and cavity losses are larger too, and 
so the atom-cavity system must be continually excited by an external laser. Such 
an approach also permits continuous observation of the atom's position, by
monitoring the light transmitted through the cavity. The dual role of photons in 
this system distinguishes it from other single-atom experiments such as those
using magneto-optical traps, ion traps or a far-off-resonance optical trap. Here 
we report high-finesse optical cavity experiments in which the change in
transmission induced by a single slow atom approaching the cavity triggers an
external feedback switch which traps the atom in a light field containing about
one photon on average. The oscillatory motion of the trapped atom induces
oscillations in the transmitted light intensity; we attribute periodic structure 
in intensity-correlation-function data to 'long-distance' flights of the atom
between different anti-nodes of the standing-wave in the cavity. The system
should facilitate investigations of the dynamics of single quantum objects and
may find future applications in quantum information processing.

DOI: 10.1038/35006006 
PMID: 10746717 


781. Nature. 2000 Mar 23;404(6776):363-5.

Discovery of a new population of high-energy gamma-ray sources in the Milky Way

Gehrels N(1), Macomb DJ, Bertsch DL, Thompson DJ, Hartman RC.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for High Energy Astrophysics, NASA's Goddard Space Flight Centre,
Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA. gehrels@gsfc.nasa.gov

One of the great mysteries of the high-energy gamma-ray sky is the group of
approximately 170 unidentified point sources found along the Galactic plane. They
are more numerous than all other high-energy gamma-ray sources combined and,
despite 20 years of effort, no clear counterparts have been found at other
wavelengths. Here we report a new population of such objects. A cluster of
approximately 20 faint sources appears north of the Galactic Centre, which is
part of a broader class of faint objects at mid-latitudes. In addition, we show
in a model-independent way that the mid-latitude sources are distinct from the
population of bright unidentified sources along the Galactic plane. The
distribution on the sky indicates that the faint mid-latitude sources are
associated with the Gould belt of massive stars and gas clouds at approximately
600 light years distance, as has been previously suggested.

DOI: 10.1038/35006001 
PMID: 10746716 


782. Nature. 2000 Mar 23;404(6776):355-62.

Three-dimensional structure of the neuronal-Sec1-syntaxin 1a complex.

Misura KM(1), Scheller RH, Weis WI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Structural Biology, Stanford University School of Medicine,
California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Mar 23;404(6776):347-9.

Syntaxin 1a and neuronal Sec1 (nSec1) form an evolutionarily conserved
heterodimer that is essential for vesicle trafficking and membrane fusion. The
crystal structure of the nSec1-syntaxin 1a complex, determined at 2.6 A
resolution, reveals that major conformational rearrangements occur in syntaxin
relative to both the core SNARE complex and isolated syntaxin. We identify
regions of the two proteins that seem to determine the binding specificity of
particular Sec1 proteins for syntaxin isoforms, which is likely to be important
for the fidelity of membrane trafficking. The structure also indicates mechanisms
that might couple the action of upstream effector proteins to conformational
changes in syntaxin 1a and nSec1 that lead to core complex formation and membrane
fusion.

DOI: 10.1038/35006120 
PMID: 10746715  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Nature. 2000 Mar 16;404(6775):307-10.

The structure of malaria pigment beta-haematin.

Pagola S(1), Stephens PW, Bohle DS, Kosar AD, Madsen SK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics & Astronomy, State University of New York, Stony Brook
11794-3800, USA.

Despite the worldwide public health impact of malaria, neither the mechanism by
which the Plasmodium parasite detoxifies and sequesters haem, nor the action of
current antimalarial drugs is well understood. The haem groups released from the 
digestion of the haemoglobin of infected red blood cells are aggregated into an
insoluble material called haemozoin or malaria pigment. Synthetic beta-haematin
(FeIII-protoporphyrin-IX)2 is chemically, spectroscopically and
crystallographically identical to haemozoin and is believed to consist of strands
of FeIII-porphyrin units, linked into a polymer by propionate oxygen-iron bonds. 
Here we report the crystal structure of beta-haematin determined using simulated 
annealing techniques to analyse powder diffraction data obtained with synchrotron
radiation. The molecules are linked into dimers through reciprocal
iron-carboxylate bonds to one of the propionic side chains of each porphyrin, and
the dimers form chains linked by hydrogen bonds in the crystal. This result has
implications for understanding the action of current antimalarial drugs and
possibly for the design of new therapeutic agents.

DOI: 10.1038/35005132 
PMID: 10749217  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Nature. 2000 Mar 16;404(6775):302-7.

Phosphorylation of CPE binding factor by Eg2 regulates translation of c-mos mRNA.

Mendez R(1), Hake LE, Andresson T, Littlepage LE, Ruderman JV, Richter JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, University of Massachusetts
Medical Center, Worcester 01655, USA.

Full-grown Xenopus oocytes arrest at the G2/M border of meiosis I. Progesterone
breaks this arrest, leading to the resumption of the meiotic cell cycles and
maturation of the oocyte into a fertilizable egg. In these oocytes, progesterone 
interacts with an unidentified surface-associated receptor, which induces a
non-transcriptional signalling pathway that stimulates the translation of dormant
c-mos messenger RNA. Mos, a mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase kinase,
indirectly activates MAP kinase, which in turn leads to oocyte maturation. The
translational recruitment of c-mos and several other mRNAs is regulated by
cytoplasmic polyadenylation, a process that requires two 3' untranslated regions,
the cytoplasmic polyadenylation element (CPE) and the polyadenylation
hexanucleotide AAUAAA. Although the signalling events that trigger c-mos mRNA
polyadenylation and translation are unclear, they probably involve the activation
of CPEB, the CPE binding factor. Here we show that an early site-specific
phosphorylation of CPEB is essential for the polyadenylation of c-mos mRNA and
its subsequent translation, and for oocyte maturation. In addition, we show that 
this selective, early phosphorylation of CPEB is catalysed by Eg2, a member of
the Aurora family of serine/threonine protein kinases.

DOI: 10.1038/35005126 
PMID: 10749216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Nature. 2000 Mar 16;404(6775):298-302.

Nuclear translocation and transcription regulation by the membrane-associated
guanylate kinase CASK/LIN-2.

Hsueh YP(1), Wang TF, Yang FC, Sheng M.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Neurobiology, Massachusetts 
General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston 02114, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature 2002 May 9;417(6885):205.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Mar 16;404(6775):241-2.

Membrane-associated guanylate kinases (MAGUKs) contain multiple protein-binding
domains that allow them to assemble specific multiprotein complexes in particular
regions of the cell. CASK/LIN-2, a MAGUK required for EGF receptor localization
and signalling in Caenorhabditis elegans, contains a calmodulin-dependent protein
kinase-like domain followed by PDZ, SH3 and guanylate kinase-like domains. In
adult rat brain, CASK is concentrated at neuronal synapses and binds to the
cell-surface proteins neurexin and syndecan and the cytoplasmic proteins
Mint/LIN-10 and Veli/LIN-7. Here we report that, through its guanylate kinase
domain, CASK interacts with Tbr-1, a T-box transcription factor that is involved 
in forebrain development. CASK enters the nucleus and binds to a specific DNA
sequence (the T-element) in a complex with Tbr-1. CASK acts as a coactivator of
Tbr-1 to induce transcription of T-element containing genes, including reelin, a 
gene that is essential for cerebrocortical development. Our findings show that a 
MAGUK which is usually associated with cell junctions has a transcription
regulation function.

DOI: 10.1038/35005118 
PMID: 10749215  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Nature. 2000 Mar 16;404(6775):296-8.

A genetic link between co-suppression and RNA interference in C. elegans.

Ketting RF(1), Plasterk RH.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Biology, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Centre for
Biomedical Genetics, Amsterdam.

Originally discovered in plants, the phenomenon of co-suppression by transgenic
DNA has since been observed in many organisms from fungi to animals: introduction
of transgenic copies of a gene results in reduced expression of the transgene as 
well as the endogenous gene. The effect depends on sequence identity between
transgene and endogenous gene. Some cases of co-suppression resemble RNA
interference (the experimental silencing of genes by the introduction of
double-stranded RNA), as RNA seems to be both an important initiator and a target
in these processes. Here we show that co-suppression in Caenorhabditis elegans is
also probably mediated by RNA molecules. Both RNA interference and co-suppression
have been implicated in the silencing of transposons. We now report that mutants 
of C. elegans that are defective in transposon silencing and RNA interference
(mut-2, mut-7, mut-8 and mut-9) are in addition resistant to co-suppression. This
indicates that RNA interference and co-suppression in C. elegans may be mediated 
at least in part by the same molecular machinery, possibly through RNA-guided
degradation of messenger RNA molecules.

DOI: 10.1038/35005113 
PMID: 10749214  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Nature. 2000 Mar 16;404(6775):293-6.

An RNA-directed nuclease mediates post-transcriptional gene silencing in
Drosophila cells.

Hammond SM(1), Bernstein E, Beach D, Hannon GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Genetica, Inc., Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA.

In a diverse group of organisms that includes Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila,
planaria, hydra, trypanosomes, fungi and plants, the introduction of
double-stranded RNAs inhibits gene expression in a sequence-specific manner.
These responses, called RNA interference or post-transcriptional gene silencing, 
may provide anti-viral defence, modulate transposition or regulate gene
expression. We have taken a biochemical approach towards elucidating the
mechanisms underlying this genetic phenomenon. Here we show that
'loss-of-function' phenotypes can be created in cultured Drosophila cells by
transfection with specific double-stranded RNAs. This coincides with a marked
reduction in the level of cognate cellular messenger RNAs. Extracts of
transfected cells contain a nuclease activity that specifically degrades
exogenous transcripts homologous to transfected double-stranded RNA. This enzyme 
contains an essential RNA component. After partial purification, the
sequence-specific nuclease co-fractionates with a discrete, approximately
25-nucleotide RNA species which may confer specificity to the enzyme through
homology to the substrate mRNAs.

DOI: 10.1038/35005107 
PMID: 10749213  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Nature. 2000 Mar 16;404(6775):289-93.

The Ras-MAPK pathway is important for olfaction in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Hirotsu T(1), Saeki S, Yamamoto M, Iino Y.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Genetics Research Laboratory, The University of Tokyo, Japan.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2004 Dec 2;432(7017):653.

The Ras-MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) signal transduction pathway is
well known to control cellular proliferation and differentiation in response to
extracellular signals, but its other functions are less understood. In
Caenorhabditis elegans this pathway regulates several developmental events, such 
as vulval induction and progression of meiosis, but its function in the nervous
system is unknown. Here we report that the Ras-MAPK pathway is involved in
olfaction in this organism. Mutational inactivation and hyperactivation of this
pathway impairs efficiency of chemotaxis to a set of odorants. Experiments in
which let-60 ras was expressed using a heat-shock promoter and a cell-specific
promoter show that a normal activity of LET-60 Ras is required in mature
olfactory neurons. Application of the odorant isoamylalcohol to wild-type animals
leads to the activation of MAP kinase in olfactory neurons within 10 seconds.
This induction is dependent on the function of the nucleotide-gated channel
TAX-2/TAX-4 and the voltage-activated calcium channel subunit UNC-2. These
results suggest a dynamic regulatory role for the Ras-MAPK pathway in perception 
and transmission of sensory signals in olfactory neurons.

DOI: 10.1038/35005101 
PMID: 10749212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Nature. 2000 Mar 16;404(6775):285-9.

NMDA spikes in basal dendrites of cortical pyramidal neurons.

Schiller J(1), Major G, Koester HJ, Schiller Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Technion Medical School, Bat-Galim,
Haifa, Israel. Jackie@tx.technion.ac.il

Basal dendrites are a major target for synaptic inputs innervating cortical
pyramidal neurons. At present little is known about signal processing in these
fine dendrites. Here we show that coactivation of clustered neighbouring basal
inputs initiated local dendritic spikes, which resulted in a 5.9 +/- 1.5 mV
(peak) and 64.4 +/- 19.8 ms (half-width) cable-filtered voltage change at the
soma that amplified the somatic voltage response by 226 +/- 46%. These spikes
were accompanied by large calcium transients restricted to the activated
dendritic segment. In contrast to conventional sodium or calcium spikes, these
spikes were mediated mostly by NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptor channels,
which contributed at least 80% of the total charge. The ionic mechanism of these 
NMDA spikes may allow 'dynamic spike-initiation zones', set by the spatial
distribution of glutamate pre-bound to NMDA receptors, which in turn would depend
on recent and ongoing activity in the cortical network. In addition, NMDA spikes 
may serve as a powerful mechanism for modification of the cortical network by
inducing long-term strengthening of co-activated neighbouring inputs.

DOI: 10.1038/35005094 
PMID: 10749211  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Nature. 2000 Mar 16;404(6775):281-5.

The ecological cost of sex.

Doncaster CP(1), Pound GE, Cox SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biodiversity and Ecology, School of Biological Sciences,
University of Southampton, UK. cpd@soton.ac.uk

Erratum in
    Nature 2000 May 18;405(6784):376.

Why sex prevails in nature remains one of the great puzzles of evolution. Sexual 
reproduction has an immediate cost relative to asexual reproduction, as males
only express their contribution to population growth through females. With no
males to sustain, an asexual mutant can double its relative representation in the
population in successive generations. This is the widely accepted 'twofold cost
of males'. Many studies have attempted to explain how sex can recoup this cost
from fitness benefits associated with the recombination of parental genotypes,
but these require complex biological environments that cycle over evolutionary
timescales. In contrast, we have considered the ecological dynamics that govern
asexual invasion. Here we show the existence of a threshold growth rate for the
sexual population, above which the invasion is halted by intraspecific
competition. The asexual population then exerts a weaker inhibitory effect on the
carrying capacity of the sexual population than on its own carrying capacity. The
stable outcome of this is coexistence on a depleted resource base. Under these
ecological circumstances, longer-term benefits of sex may eventually drive out
the asexual competitor.

DOI: 10.1038/35005078 
PMID: 10749210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Nature. 2000 Mar 16;404(6775):278-81.

Soil pathogens and spatial patterns of seedling mortality in a temperate tree.

Packer A(1), Clay K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Indiana University, Bloomington 47405, USA.
apacker@indiana.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Mar 16;404(6775):232-3.

The Janzen-Connell hypothesis proposes that host-specific, distance- and/or
density-dependent predators and herbivores maintain high tree diversity in
tropical forests. Negative feedback between plant and soil communities could be a
more effective mechanism promoting species coexistence because soil pathogens can
increase rapidly in the presence of their host, causing conditions unfavourable
for local conspecific recruitment. Here we show that a soil pathogen leads to
patterns of seedling mortality in a temperate tree (Prunus serotina) as predicted
by the Janzen-Connell hypothesis. In the field, the mean distance to parent of
seedling cohorts shifted away from maternal trees over a period of 3 years.
Seedlings were grown in soil collected 0-5 m or 25-30 m from Prunus trees.
Sterilization of soil collected beneath trees improved seedling survival relative
to unsterilized soil, whereas sterilization of distant soil did not affect
survival. Pythium spp., isolated from roots of dying seedlings and used to
inoculate healthy seedlings, decreased survival by 65% relative to controls. Our 
results provide the most complete evidence that native pathogens influence tree
distributions, as predicted by the Janzen-Connell hypothesis, and suggest that
similar ecological mechanisms operate in tropical and temperate forests.

DOI: 10.1038/35005072 
PMID: 10749209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Nature. 2000 Mar 16;404(6775):276-8.

The oldest known anthropoid postcranial fossils and the early evolution of higher
primates.

Gebo DL(1), Dagosto M, Beard KC, Qi T, Wang J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Antrophology, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb 60115, USA.
dgebo@niu.edu

The middle Eocene primate family Eosimiidae, which is known from sites in central
and eastern China and Myanmar, is central to efforts to reconstruct the origin
and early evolution of anthropoid or 'higher' primates (monkeys, apes and
humans). Previous knowledge of eosimiid anatomy has been restricted to the
dentition and an isolated petrosal bone, and this limited anatomical information 
has led to conflicting interpretations of early anthropoid phylogeny. Here we
describe foot bones of Eosimias from the same middle Eocene sites in China that
yield abundant dental remains of this primate. Tarsals of Eosimias show derived
anatomical traits that are otherwise restricted to living and fossil anthropoids.
These new fossils substantiate the anthropoid status of Eosimias and clarify the 
phylogenetic position of anthropoids with respect to other major primate clades. 
Early anthropoids possessed a mosaic of primitive and derived traits in their
postcranial skeletons, reflecting their derivation from haplorhine ancestors that
retained many prosimian-like features.

DOI: 10.1038/35005066 
PMID: 10749208  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Nature. 2000 Mar 16;404(6775):273-5.

Fine-scale heterogeneity in the Earth's inner core

Vidale JE(1), Earle PS.

Author information: 
(1)Earth and Space Science Department and Institute of Geophysics and Planetary
Physics, University of California at Los Angeles, 90095-1567, USA.
vidale@ucla.edu

The seismological properties of the Earth's inner core have become of particular 
interest as we understand more about its composition and thermal state.
Observations of anisotropy and velocity heterogeneity in the inner core are
beginning to reveal how it has grown and whether it convects. The attenuation of 
seismic waves in the inner core is strong, and studies of seismic body waves have
found that this high attenuation is consistent with either scattering or
intrinsic attenuation. The outermost portion of the inner core has been inferred 
to possess layering and to be less anisotropic than at greater depths. Here we
present observations of seismic waves scattered in the inner core which follow
the expected arrival time of the body-wave reflection from the inner-core
boundary. The amplitude of these scattered waves can be explained by stiffness
variations of 1.2% with a scale length of 2 kilometres across the outermost 300
km of the inner core. These variations might be caused by variations in
composition, by pods of partial melt in a mostly solid matrix or by variations in
the orientation or strength of seismic anisotropy.

DOI: 10.1038/35005059 
PMID: 10749207 


794. Nature. 2000 Mar 16;404(6775):269-73.

Seismic hazard in the Marmara Sea region following the 17 August 1999 Izmit
earthquake

Hubert-Ferrari A(1), Barka A, Jacques E, Nalbant SS, Meyer B, Armijo R,
Tapponnier P, King GC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geosciences, Princeton University, New Jersey 08544, USA.
ferrari@princeton.edu

On 17 August 1999, a destructive magnitude 7.4 earthquake occurred 100 km east of
Istanbul, near the city of Izmit, on the North Anatolian fault. This
1,600-km-long plate boundary slips at an average rate of 2-3 cm yr(-1), and
historically has been the site of many devastating earthquakes. This century
alone it has ruptured over 900 km of its length. Models of earthquake-induced
stress change combined with active fault maps had been used to forecast that the 
epicentral area of the 1999 Izmit event was indeed a likely location for the
occurrence of a large earthquake. Here we show that the 1999 event itself
significantly modifies the stress distribution resulting from previous fault
interactions. Our new stress models take into account all events in the region
with magnitudes greater than 6 having occurred since 1700 as well as secular
interseismic stress change, constrained by GPS data. These models provide a
consistent picture of the long term spatio-temporal behaviour of the North
Anatolian fault and indicate that two events of magnitude equal to, or greater
than, the Izmit earthquake are likely to occur within the next decades beneath
the Marmara Sea, south of Istanbul.

DOI: 10.1038/35005054 
PMID: 10749206 


795. Nature. 2000 Mar 16;404(6775):267-9.

Single crystals of an ionic anthracene aggregate with a triplet ground state

Bock H(1), Gharagozloo-Hubmann K, Sievert M, Prisner T, Havlas Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University, Frankfurt am Main,
Germany. bock@www.anorg.chemie.uni-frankfurt.de

Crystalline supramolecular aggregates consisting of charged organic molecules,
held together through metal-cluster-mediated Coulomb interactions, have attracted
interest owing to their unusual structural, chemical and electronic properties.
Aggregates containing metal cation clusters 'wrapped' by lipophilic molecular
anions have, for example, been shown to be kinetically stable and soluble in
nonpolar liquids such as saturated hydrocarbons. The formation of supramolecular 
aggregates can even be exploited to generate aromatic hydrocarbons that carry
four negative charges and crystallize in the form of organic poly(metal cation)
clusters or helical polymers. Here we report the anaerobic crystallization of an 
ionic organic aggregate--a contact ion septuple consisting of a fourfold
negatively charged 'tripledecker' of three anthracene molecules bridged by four
solvated potassium cations. Its electronic ground state is shown experimentally, 
using temperature-dependent electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy, to be a
triplet. Although the spins in this biradical ionic solid are separated by a
considerable distance, density functional theory calculations indicate that the
triplet ground state is 84 kJ mol(-1) more stable than the first excited singlet 
state. We expect that the successful crystallization of the ionic solid we report
here, and that of a covalent organic compound with a triplet ground state at room
temperature, will stimulate further attempts to develop new triplet-ground-state 
materials for practical use.

DOI: 10.1038/35005048 
PMID: 10749205 


796. Nature. 2000 Mar 16;404(6775):265-7.

Direct oxidation of hydrocarbons in a solid-oxide fuel cell

Park S(1), Vohs JM, Gorte RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia
19104, USA.

The direct electrochemical oxidation of dry hydrocarbon fuels to generate
electrical power has the potential to accelerate substantially the use of fuel
cells in transportation and distributed-power applications. Most fuel-cell
research has involved the use of hydrogen as the fuel, although the practical
generation and storage of hydrogen remains an important technological hurdle.
Methane has been successfully oxidized electrochemically, but the susceptibility 
to carbon formation from other hydrocarbons that may be present or poor power
densities have prevented the application of this simple fuel in practical
applications. Here we report the direct, electrochemical oxidation of various
hydrocarbons (methane, ethane, 1-butene, n-butane and toluene) using a
solid-oxide fuel cell at 973 and 1,073 K with a composite anode of copper and
ceria (or samaria-doped ceria). We demonstrate that the final products of the
oxidation are CO2 and water, and that reasonable power densities can be achieved.
The observation that a solid-oxide fuel cell can be operated on dry hydrocarbons,
including liquid fuels, without reforming, suggests that this type of fuel cell
could provide an alternative to hydrogen-based fuel-cell technologies.

DOI: 10.1038/35005040 
PMID: 10749204 


797. Nature. 2000 Mar 16;404(6775):262-4.

Towards the clarity limit in optical fibre

Thomas GA(1), Shraiman BI, Glodis PF, Stephens MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Bell Laboratories, Lucent Technologies, Murray Hill, New Jersey 07974-0636,
USA. gordonat@mit.edu

An important scientific and technological goal in the field of optical
communications is the achievement of the clarity limit in optical fibres--that
is, ensuring that the SiO2 glass from which fibres are made is as transparent as 
possible. The clarity of the wavelength transmission window (and the width of
that window) in existing fibres is already sufficient to form the basis of a
world-wide optical communication system, yet it is still limited by contamination
of the fibre by water. Here we measure the spatial distribution of water in the
glass rods from which optical fibres are drawn and explain the distribution
quantitatively with a mathematical model of diffusion in a medium with
essentially perfect cylindrical symmetry. Our analysis shows that the water
enters from the outside of the rod and diffuses into the molten, flowing glass
much faster than is expected from extrapolation of low-temperature measurements. 
Our elucidation of the physics underlying the contamination process has already
led to the fabrication of dry fibres, which have a clarified and broadened
communications window. The improved operational range of wavelengths should yield
applications for new lasers, optical amplifiers and detectors, and should
substantially increase the information-carrying capacity of optical
communications systems.

DOI: 10.1038/35005034 
PMID: 10749203 


798. Nature. 2000 Mar 16;404(6775):259-62.

Quantum distribution of protons in solid molecular hydrogen at megabar pressures

Kitamura H(1), Tsuneyuki S, Ogitsu T, Miyake T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Solid State Physics, University of Tokyo, Roppongi, Japan.

Solid hydrogen, a simple system consisting only of protons and electrons,
exhibits a variety of structural phase transitions at high pressures.
Experimental studies based on static compression up to about 230 GPa revealed
three relevant phases of solid molecular hydrogen: phase I (high-temperature,
low-pressure phase), phase II (low-temperature phase) and phase III
(high-pressure phase). Spectroscopic data suggest that symmetry breaking,
possibly related to orientational ordering, accompanies the transition into
phases II and III. The boundaries dividing the three phases exhibit a strong
isotope effect, indicating that the quantum-mechanical properties of hydrogen
nuclei are important. Here we report the quantum distributions of protons in the 
three phases of solid hydrogen, obtained by a first-principles path-integral
molecular dynamics method. We show that quantum fluctuations of protons
effectively hinder molecular rotation--that is, a quantum localization occurs.
The obtained crystal structures have entirely different symmetries from those
predicted by the conventional simulations which treat protons classically.

DOI: 10.1038/35005027 
PMID: 10749202 


799. Nature. 2000 Mar 16;404(6775):256-9.

Experimental entanglement of four particles

Sackett CA(1), Kielpinski D, King BE, Langer C, Meyer V V, Myatt CJ, Rowe M,
Turchette QA, Itano WM, Wineland DJ, Monroe C.

Author information: 
(1)Time and Frequency Division, National Institute of Standards and Technology,
Boulder, Colorado 80303, USA.

Quantum mechanics allows for many-particle wavefunctions that cannot be
factorized into a product of single-particle wavefunctions, even when the
constituent particles are entirely distinct. Such 'entangled' states explicitly
demonstrate the non-local character of quantum theory, having potential
applications in high-precision spectroscopy, quantum communication, cryptography 
and computation. In general, the more particles that can be entangled, the more
clearly nonclassical effects are exhibited--and the more useful the states are
for quantum applications. Here we implement a recently proposed entanglement
technique to generate entangled states of two and four trapped ions. Coupling
between the ions is provided through their collective motional degrees of
freedom, but actual motional excitation is minimized. Entanglement is achieved
using a single laser pulse, and the method can in principle be applied to any
number of ions.

DOI: 10.1038/35005011 
PMID: 10749201 


800. Nature. 2000 Mar 16;404(6775):247-55.

Quantum information and computation

Bennett CH(1), DiVincenzo DP.

Author information: 
(1)IBM Research Division, T.J. Watson Research Center, Yorktown Heights, New York
10598, USA. bennetc@watson.ibm.com

In information processing, as in physics, our classical world view provides an
incomplete approximation to an underlying quantum reality. Quantum effects like
interference and entanglement play no direct role in conventional information
processing, but they can--in principle now, but probably eventually in
practice--be harnessed to break codes, create unbreakable codes, and speed up
otherwise intractable computations.

DOI: 10.1038/35005001 
PMID: 10749200 


801. Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):164-5.

Impossibility of deleting an unknown quantum state.

Pati AK(1), Braunstein SL.

Author information: 
(1)Quantum Optics and Information Group, Informatics, University of Wales, UK.
akpati@sees.bangor.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):130-1.

A photon in an arbitrary polarization state cannot be cloned perfectly. But
suppose that at our disposal we have several copies of a photon in an unknown
state. Is it possible to delete the information content of one or more of these
photons by a physical process? Specifically, if two photons are in the same
initial polarization state, is there a mechanism that produces one photon in the 
same initial state and the other in some standard polarization state? If this
could be done, then one would create a standard blank state onto which one could 
copy an unknown state approximately, by deterministic cloning or exactly, by
probabilistic cloning. This could in principle be useful in quantum computation, 
where one could store new information in an already computed state by deleting
the old information. Here we show, however, that the linearity of quantum theory 
does not allow us to delete a copy of an arbitrary quantum state perfectly.
Though in a classical computer information can be deleted (reversibly) against a 
copy, the analogous task cannot be accomplished, even irreversibly, with quantum 
information.

DOI: 10.1038/35004532 
PMID: 10755908  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):205-8.

Ligand binding and conformational motions in myoglobin.

Ostermann A(1), Waschipky R, Parak FG, Nienhaus GU.

Author information: 
(1)Fakultät für Physik, Technische Universität München, Garching, Germany.

Myoglobin, a small globular haem protein that binds gaseous ligands such as O2,
CO and NO reversibly at the haem iron, serves as a model for studying structural 
and dynamic aspects of protein reactions. Time-resolved spectroscopic
measurements after photodissociation of the ligand revealed a complex
ligand-binding reaction with multiple kinetic intermediates, resulting from
protein relaxation and movements of the ligand within the protein. To observe the
structural changes induced by ligand dissociation, we have carried out X-ray
crystallographic investigations of carbon monoxy-myoglobin (MbCO mutant L29W)
crystals illuminated below and above 180 K, complemented by time-resolved
infrared spectroscopy of CO rebinding. Here we show that below 180 K
photodissociated ligands migrate to specific sites within an internal cavity--the
distal haem pocket--of an essentially immobilized, frozen protein, from where
they subsequently rebind by thermally activated barrier crossing. Upon
photodissociation above 180 K, ligands escape from the distal pocket, aided by
protein fluctuations that transiently open exit channels. We recover most of the 
ligands in a cavity on the opposite side of the haem group.

DOI: 10.1038/35004622 
PMID: 10724176  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):201-4.

hCds1-mediated phosphorylation of BRCA1 regulates the DNA damage response.

Lee JS(1), Collins KM, Brown AL, Lee CH, Chung JH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Hematology, NHLBI, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Mutations in the BRCA1 (ref. 1) tumour suppressor gene are found in almost all of
the families with inherited breast and ovarian cancers and about half of the
families with only breast cancer. Although the biochemical function of BRCA1 is
not well understood, it is important for DNA damage repair and cell-cycle
checkpoint. BRCA1 exists in nuclear foci but is hyperphosphorylated and disperses
after DNA damage. It is not known whether BRCA1 phosphorylation and dispersion
and its function in DNA damage response are related. In yeast the DNA damage
response and the replication-block checkpoint are mediated partly through the
Cds1 kinase family. Here we report that the human Cds1 kinase (hCds1/Chk2)
regulates BRCA1 function after DNA damage by phosphorylating serine 988 of BRCA1.
We show that hCds1 and BRCA1 interact and co-localize within discrete nuclear
foci but separate after gamma irradiation. Phosphorylation of BRCA1 at serine 988
is required for the release of BRCA1 from hCds1. This phosphorylation is also
important for the ability of BRCA1 to restore survival after DNA damage in the
BRCA1-mutated cell line HCC1937.

DOI: 10.1038/35004614 
PMID: 10724175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):197-201.

Regulation of intracellular calcium by a signalling complex of IRAG, IP3 receptor
and cGMP kinase Ibeta.

Schlossmann J(1), Ammendola A, Ashman K, Zong X, Huber A, Neubauer G, Wang GX,
Allescher HD, Korth M, Wilm M, Hofmann F, Ruth P.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pharmakologie und Toxikologie der Technischen Universität
München, Germany.

Calcium release from the endoplasmic reticulum controls a number of cellular
processes, including proliferation and contraction of smooth muscle and other
cells. Calcium release from inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3)-sensitive stores
is negatively regulated by binding of calmodulin to the IP3 receptor (IP3R) and
the NO/cGMP/cGMP kinase I (cGKI) signalling pathway. Activation of cGKI decreases
IP3-stimulated elevations in intracellular calcium, induces smooth muscle
relaxation and contributes to the antiproliferative and pro-apoptotic effects of 
NO/cGMP. Here we show that, in microsomal smooth muscle membranes, cGKIbeta
phosphorylated the IP3R and cGKIbeta, and a protein of relative molecular mass
125,000 which we now identify as the IP3R-associated cGMP kinase substrate
(IRAG). These proteins were co-immunoprecipitated by antibodies directed against 
cGKI, IP3R or IRAG. IRAG was found in many tissues including aorta, trachea and
uterus, and was localized perinuclearly after heterologous expression in COS-7
cells. Bradykinin-stimulated calcium release was not affected by the expression
of either IRAG or cGKIbeta, which we tested in the absence and presence of cGMP. 
However, calcium release was inhibited after co-expression of IRAG and cGKIbeta
in the presence of cGMP. These results identify IRAG as an essential
NO/cGKI-dependent regulator of IP3-induced calcium release.

DOI: 10.1038/35004606 
PMID: 10724174  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):193-7.

A clonogenic common myeloid progenitor that gives rise to all myeloid lineages.

Akashi K(1), Traver D, Miyamoto T, Weissman IL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, California
94305, USA. akashi@leland.stanford.edu

Haematopoietic stem cells give rise to progeny that progressively lose
self-renewal capacity and become restricted to one lineage. The points at which
haematopoietic stem cell-derived progenitors commit to each of the various
lineages remain mostly unknown. We have identified a clonogenic common lymphoid
progenitor that can differentiate into T, B and natural killer cells but not
myeloid cells. Here we report the prospective identification, purification and
characterization, using cell-surface markers and flow cytometry, of a
complementary clonogenic common myeloid progenitor that gives rise to all myeloid
lineages. Common myeloid progenitors give rise to either
megakaryocyte/erythrocyte or granulocyte/macrophage progenitors. Purified
progenitors were used to provide a first-pass expression profile of various
haematopoiesis-related genes. We propose that the common lymphoid progenitor and 
common myeloid progenitor populations reflect the earliest branch points between 
the lymphoid and myeloid lineages, and that the commitment of common myeloid
progenitors to either the megakaryocyte/erythrocyte or the granulocyte/macrophage
lineages are mutually exclusive events.

DOI: 10.1038/35004599 
PMID: 10724173  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):190-3.

Growth patterns in the developing brain detected by using continuum mechanical
tensor maps.

Thompson PM(1), Giedd JN, Woods RP, MacDonald D, Evans AC, Toga AW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, California
90095-1769, USA. thompson@loni.ucla.edu

The dynamic nature of growth and degenerative disease processes requires the
design of sensitive strategies to detect, track and quantify structural change in
the brain in its full spatial and temporal complexity. Although volumes of brain 
substructures are known to change during development, detailed maps of these
dynamic growth processes have been unavailable. Here we report the creation of
spatially complex, four-dimensional quantitative maps of growth patterns in the
developing human brain, detected using a tensor mapping strategy with greater
spatial detail and sensitivity than previously obtainable. By repeatedly scanning
children (aged 3-15 years) across time spans of up to four years, a rostro-caudal
wave of growth was detected at the corpus callosum, a fibre system that relays
information between brain hemispheres. Peak growth rates, in fibres innervating
association and language cortices, were attenuated after puberty, and contrasted 
sharply with a severe, spatially localized loss of subcortical grey matter.
Conversely, at ages 3-6 years, the fastest growth rates occurred in frontal
networks that regulate the planning of new actions. Local rates, profiles, and
principal directions of growth were visualized in each individual child.

DOI: 10.1038/35004593 
PMID: 10724172  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):187-90.

Attention modulates synchronized neuronal firing in primate somatosensory cortex.

Steinmetz PN(1), Roy A, Fitzgerald PJ, Hsiao SS, Johnson KO, Niebur E.

Author information: 
(1)Zanvyl Krieger Mind/Brain Institute, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Maryland 21218, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):131, 133.

A potentially powerful information processing strategy in the brain is to take
advantage of the temporal structure of neuronal spike trains. An increase in
synchrony within the neural representation of an object or location increases the
efficacy of that neural representation at the next synaptic stage in the brain;
thus, increasing synchrony is a candidate for the neural correlate of attentional
selection. We investigated the synchronous firing of pairs of neurons in the
secondary somatosensory cortex (SII) of three monkeys trained to switch attention
between a visual task and a tactile discrimination task. We found that most
neuron pairs in SII cortex fired synchronously and, furthermore, that the degree 
of synchrony was affected by the monkey's attentional state. In the monkey
performing the most difficult task, 35% of neuron pairs that fired synchronously 
changed their degree of synchrony when the monkey switched attention between the 
tactile and visual tasks. Synchrony increased in 80% and decreased in 20% of
neuron pairs affected by attention.

DOI: 10.1038/35004588 
PMID: 10724171  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):183-6.

Inhibitory threshold for critical-period activation in primary visual cortex.

Fagiolini M(1), Hensch TK.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Neuronal Circuit Development, Brain Science Institute RIKEN,
Saitama, Japan.

Neuronal circuits across several systems display remarkable plasticity to sensory
input during postnatal development. Experience-dependent refinements are often
restricted to well-defined critical periods in early life, but how these are
established remains mostly unknown. A representative example is the loss of
responsiveness in neocortex to an eye deprived of vision. Here we show that the
potential for plasticity is retained throughout life until an inhibitory
threshold is attained. In mice of all ages lacking an isoform of GABA
(gamma-aminobutyric acid) synthetic enzyme (GAD65), as well as in immature
wild-type animals before the onset of their natural critical period,
benzodiazepines selectively reduced a prolonged discharge phenotype to unmask
plasticity. Enhancing GABA-mediated transmission early in life rendered mutant
animals insensitive to monocular deprivation as adults, similar to normal
wild-type mice. Short-term presynaptic dynamics reflected a synaptic
reorganization in GAD65 knockout mice after chronic diazepam treatment. A
threshold level of inhibition within the visual cortex may thus trigger, once in 
life, an experience-dependent critical period for circuit consolidation, which
may otherwise lie dormant.

DOI: 10.1038/35004582 
PMID: 10724170  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):180-3.

Simple rules yield complex food webs.

Williams RJ(1), Martinez ND.

Author information: 
(1)Romberg Tiburon Center, Department of Biology, San Francisco State University,
Tiburon, California 94920, USA.

Several of the most ambitious theories in ecology describe food webs that
document the structure of strong and weak trophic links that is responsible for
ecological dynamics among diverse assemblages of species. Early mechanism-based
theory asserted that food webs have little omnivory and several properties that
are independent of species richness. This theory was overturned by empirical
studies that found food webs to be much more complex, but these studies did not
provide mechanistic explanations for the complexity. Here we show that a
remarkably simple model fills this scientific void by successfully predicting key
structural properties of the most complex and comprehensive food webs in the
primary literature. These properties include the fractions of species at top,
intermediate and basal trophic levels, the means and variabilities of generality,
vulnerability and food-chain length, and the degrees of cannibalism, omnivory,
looping and trophic similarity. Using only two empirical parameters, species
number and connectance, our 'niche model' extends the existing 'cascade model and
improves its fit ten-fold by constraining species to consume a contiguous
sequence of prey in a one-dimensional trophic niche.

DOI: 10.1038/35004572 
PMID: 10724169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):177-80.

Delayed biological recovery from extinctions throughout the fossil record.

Kirchner JW(1), Weil A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, University of California, Berkeley
94720-4767, USA. kirchner@seismo.berkeley.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):129-30.

How quickly does biodiversity rebound after extinctions? Palaeobiologists have
examined the temporal, taxonomic and geographic patterns of recovery following
individual mass extinctions in detail, but have not analysed recoveries from
extinctions throughout the fossil record as a whole. Here, we measure how fast
biodiversity rebounds after extinctions in general, rather than after individual 
mass extinctions, by calculating the cross-correlation between extinction and
origination rates across the entire Phanerozoic marine fossil record. Our results
show that extinction rates are not significantly correlated with contemporaneous 
origination rates, but instead are correlated with origination rates roughly 10
million years later. This lagged correlation persists when we remove the 'Big
Five' major mass extinctions, indicating that recovery times following mass
extinctions and background extinctions are similar. Our results suggest that
there are intrinsic limits to how quickly global biodiversity can recover after
extinction events, regardless of their magnitude. They also imply that today's
anthropogenic extinctions will diminish biodiversity for millions of years to
come.

DOI: 10.1038/35004564 
PMID: 10724168  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):174-7.

Interferometric radar measurements of water level changes on the Amazon flood
plain

Alsdorf DE(1), Melack JM, Dunne T, Mertes LA, Hess LL, Smith LC.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Computational Earth System Science, University of California,
Santa Barbara 93106, USA. alsdorf@icess.ucsb.edu

Measurements of water levels in the main channels of rivers, upland tributaries
and floodplain lakes are necessary for understanding flooding hazards, methane
production, sediment transport and nutrient exchange. But most remote river
basins have only a few gauging stations and these tend to be restricted to large 
river channels. Although radar remote sensing techniques using interferometric
phase measurements have the potential to greatly improve spatial sampling, the
phase is temporally incoherent over open water and has therefore not been used to
determine water levels. Here we use interferometric synthetic aperture radar
(SAR) data, acquired over the central Amazon by the Space Shuttle imaging radar
mission, to measure subtle water level changes in an area of flooded vegetation
on the Amazon flood plain. The technique makes use of the fact that flooded
forests and floodplain lakes with emergent shrubs permit radar double-bounce
returns from water and vegetation surfaces, thus allowing coherence to be
maintained. Our interferometric phase observations show decreases in water levels
of 7-11 cm per day for tributaries and lakes within approximately 20 km of a main
channel and 2-5 cm per day at distances of approximately 80 km. Proximal
floodplain observations are in close agreement with main-channel gauge records,
indicating a rapid response of the flood plain to decreases in river stage. With 
additional data from future satellite missions, the technique described here
should provide direct observations important for understanding flood dynamics and
hydrologic exchange between rivers and flood plains.

DOI: 10.1038/35004560 
PMID: 10724167 


812. Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):171-4.

The influence of Antarctic sea ice on glacial-interglacial CO2 variations

Stephens BB(1), Keeling RF.

Author information: 
(1)Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California, San Diego, La
Jolla 92093-0244, USA. britt@cmdl.noaa.gov

Ice-core measurements indicate that atmospheric CO2 concentrations during glacial
periods were consistently about 80 parts per million lower than during
interglacial periods. Previous explanations for this observation have typically
had difficulty accounting for either the estimated glacial O2 concentrations in
the deep sea, 13C/12C ratios in Antarctic surface waters, or the depth of calcite
saturation; also lacking is an explanation for the strong link between
atmospheric CO2 and Antarctic air temperature. There is growing evidence that the
amount of deep water upwelling at low latitudes is significantly overestimated in
most ocean general circulation models and simpler box models previously used to
investigate this problem. Here we use a box model with deep-water upwelling
confined to south of 55 degrees S to investigate the glacial-interglacial
linkages between Antarctic air temperature and atmospheric CO2 variations. We
suggest that low glacial atmospheric CO2 levels might result from reduced
deep-water ventilation associated with either year-round Antarctic sea-ice
coverage, or wintertime coverage combined with ice-induced stratification during 
the summer. The model presented here reproduces 67 parts per million of the
observed glacial-interglacial CO2 difference, as a result of reduced air-sea gas 
exchange in the Antarctic region, and is generally consistent with the additional
observational constraints.

DOI: 10.1038/35004556 
PMID: 10724166 


813. Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):168-71.

Sintering dense nanocrystalline ceramics without final-stage grain growth

Chen IW(1), Wang XH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia 19104-6272, USA. iweichen@seas.upenn.edu

Sintering is the process whereby interparticle pores in a granular material are
eliminated by atomic diffusion driven by capillary forces. It is the preferred
manufacturing method for industrial ceramics. The observation of Burke and Coble 
that certain crystalline granular solids could gain full density and translucency
by solid-state sintering was an important milestone for modern technical
ceramics. But these final-stage sintering processes are always accompanied by
rapid grain growth, because the capillary driving forces for sintering (involving
surfaces) and grain growth (involving grain boundaries) are comparable in
magnitude, both being proportional to the reciprocal grain size. This has greatly
hampered efforts to produce dense materials with nanometre-scale structure (grain
size less than 100 nm), leading many researchers to resort to the 'brute force'
approach of high-pressure consolidation at elevated temperatures. Here we show
that fully dense cubic Y2O3 (melting point, 2,439 degrees C) with a grain size of
60 nm can be prepared by a simple two-step sintering method, at temperatures of
about 1,000 degrees C without applied pressure. The suppression of the
final-stage grain growth is achieved by exploiting the difference in kinetics
between grain-boundary diffusion and grain-boundary migration. Such a process
should facilitate the cost-effective preparation of other nanocrystalline
materials for practical applications.

DOI: 10.1038/35004548 
PMID: 10724165 


814. Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):166-8.

Molecular control over Au/GaAs diodes

Vilan A(1), Shanzer A, Cahen D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials and Interfaces, Weizmann Institute of Science,
Rehovoth, Israel.

The use of molecules to control electron transport is an interesting possibility,
not least because of the anticipated role of molecules in future electronic
devices. But physical implementations using discrete molecules are neither
conceptually simple nor technically straightforward (difficulties arise in
connecting the molecules to the macroscopic environment). But the use of
molecules in electronic devices is not limited to single molecules, molecular
wires or bulk material. Here we demonstrate that molecules can control the
electrical characteristics of conventional metal-semiconductor junctions,
apparently without the need for electrons to be transferred onto and through the 
molecules. We modify diodes by adsorbing small molecules onto single crystals of 
n-type GaAs semiconductor. Gold contacts were deposited onto the modified
surface, using a 'soft' method to avoid damaging the molecules. By using a series
of multifunctional molecules whose dipole is varied systematically, we produce
diodes with an effective barrier height that is tuned by the molecule's dipole
moment. These barrier heights correlate well with the change in work function of 
the GaAs surface after molecular modification. This behaviour is consistent with 
that of unmodified metal-semiconductor diodes, in which the barrier height can
depend on the metal's work function.

DOI: 10.1038/35004539 
PMID: 10724164 


815. Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):161-4.

North-south geological differences between the residual polar caps on Mars.

Thomas PC(1), Malin MC, Edgett KS, Carr MH, Hartmann WK, Ingersoll AP, James PB, 
Soderblom LA, Veverka J, Sullivan R.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Radiophysics and Space Research, Cornell University, Ithaca, New
York 14853, USA. thomas@cuspif.tn.cornell.edu

Polar processes can be sensitive indicators of global climate, and the geological
features associated with polar ice caps can therefore indicate evolution of
climate with time. The polar regions on Mars have distinctive morphologic and
climatologic features: thick layered deposits, seasonal CO2 frost caps extending 
to mid latitudes, and near-polar residual frost deposits that survive the summer.
The relationship of the seasonal and residual frost caps to the layered deposits 
has been poorly constrained, mainly by the limited spatial resolution of the
available data. In particular, it has not been known if the residual caps
represent simple thin frost cover or substantial geologic features. Here we show 
that the residual cap on the south pole is a distinct geologic unit with striking
collapse and erosional topography; this is very different from the residual cap
on the north pole, which grades into the underlying layered materials. These
findings indicate that the differences between the caps are substantial (rather
than reflecting short-lived differences in frost cover), and so support the idea 
of long-term asymmetry in the polar climates of Mars.

DOI: 10.1038/35004528 
PMID: 10724162  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):159-61.

Discovery of calcium in Mercury's atmosphere.

Bida TA(1), Killen RM, Morgan TH.

Author information: 
(1)W.M. Keck Observatory, CARA, Kamuela, Hawaii 96743, USA. tbida@keck.hawaii.edu

The composition and evolutionary history of Mercury's crust are not well
determined. The planet as a whole has been predicted to have a refractory,
anhydrous composition: rich in Ca, Al, Mg and Fe, but poor in Na, K, OH, and S.
Its atmosphere is believed to be derived in large part from the surface
materials. A combination of effects that include impact vaporization (from
infalling material), volatile evaporation, photon-stimulated desorption and
sputtering releases material from the surface to form the atmosphere. Sodium and 
potassium have already been observed in Mercury's atmosphere, with abundances
that require a volatile-rich crust. The sodium probably results from
photon-stimulated desorption, and has a temperature of 1,500 K (ref. 10). Here we
report the discovery of calcium in the atmosphere near Mercury's poles. The
column density is very low and the temperature is apparently very high (12,000
K). The localized distribution and high temperature, if confirmed, suggest that
the atmospheric calcium may arise from surface sputtering by ions, which enter
Mercury's auroral zone. The low abundance of atmospheric Ca may indicate that the
regolith is rarefied in calcium.

DOI: 10.1038/35004521 
PMID: 10724161  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):151-8.

Autoinhibition and activation mechanisms of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein.

Kim AS(1), Kakalis LT, Abdul-Manan N, Liu GA, Rosen MK.

Author information: 
(1)Cellular Biochemistry and Biophysics Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, New York 10021, USA.

The Rho-family GTPase, Cdc42, can regulate the actin cytoskeleton through
activation of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) family members. Activation 
relieves an autoinhibitory contact between the GTPase-binding domain and the
carboxy-terminal region of WASP proteins. Here we report the autoinhibited
structure of the GTPase-binding domain of WASP, which can be induced by the
C-terminal region or by organic co-solvents. In the autoinhibited complex,
intramolecular interactions with the GTPase-binding domain occlude residues of
the C terminus that regulate the Arp2/3 actin-nucleating complex. Binding of
Cdc42 to the GTPase-binding domain causes a dramatic conformational change,
resulting in disruption of the hydrophobic core and release of the C terminus,
enabling its interaction with the actin regulatory machinery. These data show
that 'intrinsically unstructured' peptides such as the GTPase-binding domain of
WASP can be induced into distinct structural and functional states depending on
context.

DOI: 10.1038/35004513 
PMID: 10724160  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):145-50.

Cenozoic motion between East and West Antarctica

Cande SC(1), Stock JM, Muller RD, Ishihara T.

Author information: 
(1)Scripps Institution of Oceanography, La Jolla, California 92093-0215, USA.
scande@ucsd.edu

The West Antarctic rift system is the result of late Mesozoic and Cenozoic
extension between East and West Antarctica, and represents one of the largest
active continental rift systems on Earth. But the timing and magnitude of the
plate motions leading to the development of this rift system remain poorly known,
because of a lack of magnetic anomaly and fracture zone constraints on seafloor
spreading. Here we report on magnetic data, gravity data and swath bathymetry
collected in several areas of the south Tasman Sea and northern Ross Sea. These
results enable us to calculate mid-Cenozoic rotation parameters for East and West
Antarctica. These rotations show that there was roughly 180 km of separation in
the western Ross Sea embayment in Eocene and Oligocene time. This episode of
extension provides a tectonic setting for several significant Cenozoic tectonic
events in the Ross Sea embayment including the uplift of the Transantarctic
Mountains and the deposition of large thicknesses of Oligocene sediments.
Inclusion of this East-West Antarctic motion in the plate circuit linking the
Australia, Antarctic and Pacific plates removes a puzzling gap between the Lord
Howe rise and Campbell plateau found in previous early Tertiary reconstructions
of the New Zealand region. Determination of this East-West Antarctic motion also 
resolves a long standing controversy regarding the contribution of deformation in
this region to the global plate circuit linking the Pacific to the rest of the
world.

DOI: 10.1038/35004501 
PMID: 10724159 


819. Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):164-5.

Impossibility of deleting an unknown quantum state

Pati AK(1), Braunstein SL.

Author information: 
(1)Quantum Optics and Information Group, Informatics, University of Wales,
Bangor, UK. akpati@sees.bangor.ac.uk

A photon in an arbitrary polarization state cannot be cloned perfectly. But
suppose that at our disposal we have several copies of a photon in an unknown
state. Is it possible to delete the information content of one or more of these
photons by a physical process? Specifically, if two photons are in the same
initial polarization state, is there a mechanism that produces one photon in the 
same initial state and the other in some standard polarization state? If this
could be done, then one would create a standard blank state onto which one could 
copy an unknown state approximately, by deterministic cloning or exactly, by
probabilistic cloning. This could in principle be useful in quantum computation, 
where one could store new information in an already computed state by deleting
the old information. Here we show, however, that the linearity of quantum theory 
does not allow us to delete a copy of an arbitrary quantum state perfectly.
Though in a classical computer information can be deleted (reversibly) against a 
copy, the analogous task cannot be accomplished, even irreversibly, with quantum 
information.

DOI: 10.1038/35004532 
PMID: 10724163 


820. Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):103-6.

Single-molecule studies of the effect of template tension on T7 DNA polymerase
activity.

Wuite GJ(1), Smith SB, Young M, Keller D, Bustamante C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of California, Berkeley 94720, USA.

T7 DNA polymerase catalyses DNA replication in vitro at rates of more than 100
bases per second and has a 3'-->5' exonuclease (nucleotide removing) activity at 
a separate active site. This enzyme possesses a 'right hand' shape which is
common to most polymerases with fingers, palm and thumb domains. The
rate-limiting step for replication is thought to involve a conformational change 
between an 'open fingers' state in which the active site samples nucleotides, and
a 'closed' state in which nucleotide incorporation occurs. DNA polymerase must
function as a molecular motor converting chemical energy into mechanical force as
it moves over the template. Here we show, using a single-molecule assay based on 
the differential elasticity of single-stranded and double-stranded DNA, that
mechanical force is generated during the rate-limiting step and that the motor
can work against a maximum template tension of approximately 34 pN. Estimates of 
the mechanical and entropic work done by the enzyme show that T7 DNA polymerase
organizes two template bases in the polymerization site during each catalytic
cycle. We also find a force-induced 100-fold increase in exonucleolysis above 40 
pN.

DOI: 10.1038/35003614 
PMID: 10716452  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):99-103.

p73-deficient mice have neurological, pheromonal and inflammatory defects but
lack spontaneous tumours.

Yang A(1), Walker N, Bronson R, Kaghad M, Oosterwegel M, Bonnin J, Vagner C,
Bonnet H, Dikkes P, Sharpe A, McKeon F, Caput D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

p73 (ref. 1) has high homology with the tumour suppressor p53 (refs 2-4), as well
as with p63, a gene implicated in the maintenance of epithelial stem cells.
Despite the localization of the p73 gene to chromosome 1p36.3, a region of
frequent aberration in a wide range of human cancers, and the ability of p73 to
transactivate p53 target genes, it is unclear whether p73 functions as a tumour
suppressor. Here we show that mice functionally deficient for all p73 isoforms
exhibit profound defects, including hippocampal dysgenesis, hydrocephalus,
chronic infections and inflammation, as well as abnormalities in pheromone
sensory pathways. In contrast to p53-deficient mice, however, those lacking p73
show no increased susceptibility to spontaneous tumorigenesis. We report the
mechanistic basis of the hippocampal dysgenesis and the loss of pheromone
responses, and show that new, potentially dominant-negative, p73 variants are the
predominant expression products of this gene in developing and adult tissues. Our
data suggest that there is a marked divergence in the physiological functions of 
the p53 family members, and reveal unique roles for p73 in neurogenesis, sensory 
pathways and homeostatic control.

DOI: 10.1038/35003607 
PMID: 10716451  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):95-9.

Eomesodermin is required for mouse trophoblast development and mesoderm
formation.

Russ AP(1), Wattler S, Colledge WH, Aparicio SA, Carlton MB, Pearce JJ, Barton
SC, Surani MA, Ryan K, Nehls MC, Wilson V, Evans MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome/CRC Institute for Cancer and Developmental Biology, and Department of
Physiology, University of Cambridge, UK. apr@mole.bio.cam.ac.uk

The earliest cell fate decision in the mammalian embryo separates the
extra-embryonic trophoblast lineage, which forms the fetal portion of the
placenta, from the embryonic cell lineages. The body plan of the embryo proper is
established only later at gastrulation, when the pluripotent epiblast gives rise 
to the germ layers ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm. Here we show that the T-box
gene Eomesodermin performs essential functions in both trophoblast development
and gastrulation. Mouse embryos lacking Eomesodermin arrest at the blastocyst
stage. Mutant trophoectoderm does not differentiate into trophoblast, indicating 
that Eomesodermin may be required for the development of trophoblast stem cells. 
In the embryo proper, Eomesodermin is essential for mesoderm formation. Although 
the specification of the anterior-posterior axis and the initial response to
mesoderm-inducing signals is intact in mutant epiblasts, the prospective
mesodermal cells are not recruited into the primitive streak. Our results
indicate that Eomesodermin defines a conserved molecular pathway controlling the 
morphogenetic movements of germ layer formation and has acquired a new function
in mammals in the differentiation of trophoblast.

DOI: 10.1038/35003601 
PMID: 10716450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):91-4.

Delayed activation of the paternal genome during seed development.

Vielle-Calzada JP(1), Baskar R, Grossniklaus U.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, New York 11724, USA.

Little is known about the timing of the maternal-to-zygotic transition during
seed development in flowering plants. Because plant embryos can develop from
somatic cells or microspores, maternal contributions are not considered to be
crucial in early embryogensis. Early-acting embryo-lethal mutants in Arabidopsis,
including emb30/gnom which affects the first zygotic division, have fuelled the
perception that both maternal and paternal genomes are active immediately after
fertilization. Here we show that none of the paternally inherited alleles of 20
loci that we tested is expressed during early seed development in Arabidopsis.
For genes that are expressed at later stages, the paternally inherited allele
becomes active three to four days after fertilization. The genes that we tested
are involved in various processes and distributed throughout the genome,
indicating that most, if not all, of the paternal genome may be initially
silenced. Our findings are corroborated by genetic studies showing that
emb30/gnom has a maternal-effect phenotype that is paternally rescuable in
addition to its zygotic lethality. Thus, contrary to previous interpretations,
early embryo and endosperm development are mainly under maternal control.

DOI: 10.1038/35003595 
PMID: 10716449  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):87-91.

Light acts directly on organs and cells in culture to set the vertebrate
circadian clock.

Whitmore D(1), Foulkes NS, Sassone-Corsi P.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Génétique et de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire,
CNRS-INSERM-ULP, Illkirch, CU de Strasbourg, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):25, 27-8.

The expression of clock genes in vertebrates is widespread and not restricted to 
classical clock structures. The expression of the Clock gene in zebrafish shows a
strong circadian oscillation in many tissues in vivo and in culture, showing that
endogenous oscillators exist in peripheral organs. A defining feature of
circadian clocks is that they can be set or entrained to local time, usually by
the environmental light-dark cycle. An important question is whether peripheral
oscillators are entrained to local time by signals from central pacemakers such
as the eyes or are themselves directly light-responsive. Here we show that the
peripheral organ clocks of zebrafish are set by light-dark cycles in culture. We 
also show that a zebrafish-derived cell line contains a circadian oscillator,
which is also directly light entrained.

DOI: 10.1038/35003589 
PMID: 10716448  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):84-7.

Cannabinoids control spasticity and tremor in a multiple sclerosis model.

Baker D(1), Pryce G, Croxford JL, Brown P, Pertwee RG, Huffman JW, Layward L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurochemistry, Institute of Neurology, University College
London, UK. D.Baker@ion.ucl.ac.uk

Chronic relapsing experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (CREAE) is an
autoimmune model of multiple sclerosis. Although both these diseases are typified
by relapsing-remitting paralytic episodes, after CREAE induction by sensitization
to myelin antigens Biozzi ABH mice also develop spasticity and tremor. These
symptoms also occur during multiple sclerosis and are difficult to control. This 
has prompted some patients to find alternative medicines, and to perceive benefit
from cannabis use. Although this benefit has been backed up by small clinical
studies, mainly with non-quantifiable outcomes, the value of cannabis use in
multiple sclerosis remains anecdotal. Here we show that cannabinoid (CB) receptor
agonism using R(+)-WIN 55,212, delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol, methanandamide and
JWH-133 (ref. 8) quantitatively ameliorated both tremor and spasticity in
diseased mice. The exacerbation of these signs after antagonism of the CB1 and
CB2 receptors, notably the CB1 receptor, using SR141716A and SR144528 (ref. 8)
indicate that the endogenous cannabinoid system may be tonically active in the
control of tremor and spasticity. This provides a rationale for patients'
indications of the therapeutic potential of cannabis in the control of the
symptoms of multiple sclerosis, and provides a means of evaluating more selective
cannabinoids in the future.

DOI: 10.1038/35003583 
PMID: 10716447  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):80-4.

Temporal patterns of human cortical activity reflect tone sequence structure.

Patel AD(1), Balaban E.

Author information: 
(1)The Neurosciences Institute, San Diego, California 92121, USA. apatel@nsi.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):29, 31.

Despite growing interest in temporal aspects of auditory neural processing,
little is known about large-scale timing patterns of brain activity during the
perception of auditory sequences. This is partly because it has not been possible
to distinguish stimulus-related activity from other, endogenous brain signals
recorded by electrical or magnetic sensors. Here we use amplitude modulation of
unfamiliar, approximately 1-minute-long tone sequences to label stimulus-related 
magnetoencephalographic neural activity in human subjects. We show that temporal 
patterns of activity recorded over particular brain regions track the pitch
contour of tone sequences, with the accuracy of tracking increasing as tone
sequences become more predictable in structure. In contrast, temporal
synchronization between recording locations, particularly between sites over the 
left posterior hemisphere and the rest of the brain, is greatest when sequences
have melody-like statistical properties, which may reflect the perceptual
integration of local and global pitch patterns in melody-like sequences. This
method is particularly well suited to studying temporal neural correlates of
complex auditory sequences (such as speech or music) which engage multiple brain 
areas as perception unfolds in time.

DOI: 10.1038/35003577 
PMID: 10716446  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):77-80.

Macaque monkeys categorize images by their ordinal number.

Orlov T(1), Yakovlev V, Hochstein S, Zohary E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Silberman Institute of Life Sciences, Hebrew
University, Jerusalem, Israel. tanyao@apollo.ls.huji.ac.il

The recall of a list of items in a serial order is a basic cognitive skill.
However, it is unknown whether a list of arbitrary items is remembered by
associations between sequential items or by associations between each item and
its ordinal position. Here, to study the nonverbal strategies used for such
memory tasks, we trained three macaque monkeys on a delayed sequence recall task.
Thirty abstract images, divided into ten triplets, were presented repeatedly in
fixed temporal order. On each trial the monkeys viewed three sequentially
presented sample stimuli, followed by a test stimulus consisting of the same
three images and a distractor image (chosen randomly from the remaining 27). The 
task was to touch the three images in their original order without touching the
distractor. The most common error was touching the distractor when it had the
same ordinal number (in its own triplet) as the correct image. Thus, the monkeys'
natural tendency was to categorize images by their ordinal number. Additional,
secondary strategies were used eventually to avoid the distractor images. These
included memory of the sample images (working memory) and associations between
sequence triplet members. Thus, monkeys use multiple mnemonic strategies
according to their innate tendencies and the requirements of the task.

DOI: 10.1038/35003571 
PMID: 10716445  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):74-7.

Egg investment is influenced by male attractiveness in the mallard.

Cunningham EJ(1), Russell AF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal and Plant Sciences, University of Sheffield, UK.
ejac3@hermes.cam.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):31.

Why females prefer to copulate with particular males is a contentious issue.
Attention is currently focused on whether females choose males on the basis of
their genetic quality, in order to produce more viable offspring. Support for
this hypothesis in birds has come from studies showing that preferred males tend 
to father offspring of better condition or with increased survivorship. Before
attributing greater offspring viability to a male's heritable genetic quality,
however, it is important to discount effects arising from confounding sources,
including maternal effects. This has generally been addressed by comparing
offspring viability from two different breeding attempts by the same female: one 
when offspring are sired by a preferred male, and one when offspring are sired by
a less preferred male. However, here we show that individual female mallard (Anas
platyrhynchos) lay larger eggs after copulating with preferred males and smaller 
eggs after copulating with less preferred males. As a result, females produced
offspring of better body condition when paired with preferred males. After
controlling for these differences in maternal investment, we found no effect of
paternity on offspring condition. This shows that differences between half-sibs
cannot always be attributed to paternal or maternal genetic effects.

DOI: 10.1038/35003565 
PMID: 10716444  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):72-4.

Tree species impoverishment and the future flora of the Atlantic forest of
northeast Brazil.

Cardoso da Silva JM(1), Tabarelli M.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Centro de Ciências Biológicas,
Departamento de Zoologia, Recife, PE, Brazil. jmcsilva@npd.ufpe.br

Estimates of species extinction due to human impact on tropical forests have
previously been based on the relationship between species number and area. Here
we use a different approach to estimate loss of tree species in the Atlantic
forest of northeast Brazil. We evaluate the characteristics of plant species,
their avian dispersers and the distribution of the forest remnants on the
landscape to estimate that about 33.9% of tree species in this region will become
extinct on a regional scale. Because northeast Brazil is the most threatened
sector of South American Atlantic forest, our results highlight the need to
change the current conservation paradigm for this region. Rather than focus on
the creation of isolated reserves in any medium-to-large forest remnant, a
bioregional planning approach is urgently required to rescue this unique biota
from extinction.

DOI: 10.1038/35003563 
PMID: 10716443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):69-72.

Geodetic evidence for a low slip rate in the Altyn Tagh fault system

Bendick R(1), Bilham R, Freymueller J, Larson K, Yin G.

Author information: 
(1)CIRES & Department of Geological Sciences, University of Colorado, Boulder
80309-0399, USA.

The collision between India and Asia has been simulated with a variety of
computational models that describe or predict the motions of the main faults of
east Asia. Geological slip-rate estimates of 20-30 mm yr(-1) suggest that the
largest of these faults, the 2,000-km-long Altyn Tagh fault system on the
northern edge of the Tibetan plateau, absorbs as much of the Indo-Asian
convergence signal as do the Himalayas--partly by oblique slip and partly by
contraction and mountain growth. However, the predictions of dynamic models for
Asian deformation and the lower bounds of some geological slip-rates estimates
(3-9 mm yr(-1); refs 7, 8) suggest that the Altyn Tagh system is less active.
Here, we report geodetic data from 89-91 degrees E that indicate left-lateral
shear of 9 +/- 5 mm yr(-1) and contraction of 3 +/- 1 mm yr(-1) across the Altyn 
Tagh system. This result--combined with our finding that, at 90 degrees E, Tibet 
contracts north-south at 9 +/- 1 mm yr(-1)--supports the predictions of dynamic
models of Asian deformation.

DOI: 10.1038/35003555 
PMID: 10716442 


831. Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):66-9.

Stable sulphate clusters as a source of new atmospheric particles

Kulmala M(1), Pirjola L, Makela JM.

Author information: 
(1)University of Helsinki, Department of Physics, Finland.
markku.kulmala@helsinki.fi

The formation of new atmospheric particles with diameters of 3-10 nm has been
observed at a variety of altitudes and locations. Such aerosol particles have the
potential to grow into cloud condensation nuclei, thus affecting cloud formation 
as well as the global radiation budget. In some cases, the observed formation
rates of new particles have been adequately explained by binary nucleation,
involving water and sulphuric acid, but in certain locations--particularly those 
within the marine boundary layer and at continental sites--observed ambient
nucleation rates exceed those predicted by the binary scheme. In these locations,
ambient sulphuric acid (H2SO4) levels are typically lower than required for
binary nucleation, but are sufficient for ternary nucleation (sulphuric
acid-ammonia-water). Here we present results from an aerosol dynamics model with 
a ternary nucleation scheme which indicate that nucleation in the troposphere
should be ubiquitous, and yield a reservoir of thermodynamically stable clusters 
1-3 nm in size. We suggest that the growth of these clusters to a detectable size
(> 3 nm particle diameter) is restricted by the availability of condensable
vapour. Observations of atmospheric particle formation and growth from a
continental and a coastal site support this hypothesis, indicating that a growth 
process including ternary nucleation is likely to be responsible for the
formation of cloud condensation nuclei.

DOI: 10.1038/35003550 
PMID: 10716441 


832. Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):61-6.

Evidence from U-Th dating against Northern Hemisphere forcing of the penultimate 
deglaciation

Henderson GM(1), Slowey NC.

Author information: 
(1)Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University, Palisades, New York
10964, USA. gideonh@earth.ox.ac.uk

Milankovitch proposed that summer insolation at mid-latitudes in the Northern
Hemisphere directly causes the ice-age climate cycles. This would imply that
times of ice-sheet collapse should correspond to peaks in Northern Hemisphere
June insolation. But the penultimate deglaciation has proved controversial
because June insolation peaks 127 kyr ago whereas several records of past climate
suggest that change may have occurred up to 15 kyr earlier. There is a clear
signature of the penultimate deglaciation in marine oxygen-isotope records. But
dating this event, which is significantly before the 14C age range, has not been 
possible. Here we date the penultimate deglaciation in a record from the Bahamas 
using a new U-Th isochron technique. After the necessary corrections for
alpha-recoil mobility of 234U and 230Th and a small age correction for sediment
mixing, the midpoint age for the penultimate deglaciation is determined to be 135
+/- 2.5 kyr ago. This age is consistent with some coral-based sea-level
estimates, but it is difficult to reconcile with June Northern Hemisphere
insolation as the trigger for the ice-age cycles. Potential alternative driving
mechanisms for the ice-age cycles that are consistent with such an early date for
the penultimate deglaciation are either the variability of the tropical
ocean-atmosphere system or changes in atmospheric CO2 concentration controlled by
a process in the Southern Hemisphere.

DOI: 10.1038/35003541 
PMID: 10716440 


833. Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):59-61.

Shape control of CdSe nanocrystals

Peng X(1), Manna L, Yang W, Wickham J, Scher E, Kadavanich A, Alivisatos AP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California at Berkeley, and Lawrence
Berkeley National Laboratory, 94720, USA.

Nanometre-size inorganic dots, tubes and wires exhibit a wide range of electrical
and optical properties that depend sensitively on both size and shape, and are of
both fundamental and technological interest. In contrast to the syntheses of
zero-dimensional systems, existing preparations of one-dimensional systems often 
yield networks of tubes or rods which are difficult to separate. And, in the case
of optically active II-VI and III-V semiconductors, the resulting rod diameters
are too large to exhibit quantum confinement effects. Thus, except for some metal
nanocrystals, there are no methods of preparation that yield soluble and
monodisperse particles that are quantum-confined in two of their dimensions. For 
semiconductors, a benchmark preparation is the growth of nearly spherical II-VI
and III-V nanocrystals by injection of precursor molecules into a hot surfactant.
Here we demonstrate that control of the growth kinetics of the II-VI
semiconductor cadmium selenide can be used to vary the shapes of the resulting
particles from a nearly spherical morphology to a rod-like one, with aspect
ratios as large as ten to one. This method should be useful, not only for testing
theories of quantum confinement, but also for obtaining particles with
spectroscopic properties that could prove advantageous in biological labelling
experiments and as chromophores in light-emitting diodes.

DOI: 10.1038/35003535 
PMID: 10716439 


834. Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):56-9.

Electrophoretic assembly of colloidal crystals with optically tunable
micropatterns

Hayward RC(1), Saville DA, Aksay IA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering and Princeton Materials Institute,
Princeton University, New Jersey 08544-5263, USA.

The production of materials with micrometre- and submicrometre-scale patterns is 
of importance in a range of applications, such as photonic materials,
high-density magnetic data storage devices, microchip reactors and biosensors.
One method of preparing such structures is through the assembly of colloidal
particles. Micropatterned colloidal assemblies have been produced with
lithographically patterned electrodes or micromoulds. Here we describe a
different method that combines the well-known photochemical sensitivity of
semiconductors with electric-field-induced assembly to create ordered arrays of
micrometre-sized colloidal particles with tunable patterns. We show that light
affects the assembly processes, and demonstrate how to produce patterns using
electrophoretic deposition in the presence of an ultraviolet (UV) illumination
motif. The distribution of current across an indium tin oxide (ITO) electrode can
be altered by varying the illumination intensity: during the deposition process, 
this causes colloidal particles to be swept from darkened areas into lighted
regions. Illumination also assists in immobilizing the particles on the electrode
surface. Although the details of these processes are not well understood, the
patterning effects of the UV light are discussed in terms of alterations in the
current density that affects particle assembly on an ITO electrode.

DOI: 10.1038/35003530 
PMID: 10716438 


835. Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):53-6.

Fabrication of photonic crystals for the visible spectrum by holographic
lithography

Campbell M(1), Sharp DN, Harrison MT, Denning RG, Turberfield AJ.

Author information: 
(1)University of Oxford, Department of Physics, UK.

The term 'photonics' describes a technology whereby data transmission and
processing occurs largely or entirely by means of photons. Photonic crystals are 
microstructured materials in which the dielectric constant is periodically
modulated on a length scale comparable to the desired wavelength of operation.
Multiple interference between waves scattered from each unit cell of the
structure may open a 'photonic bandgap'--a range of frequencies, analogous to the
electronic bandgap of a semiconductor, within which no propagating
electromagnetic modes exist. Numerous device principles that exploit this
property have been identified. Considerable progress has now been made in
constructing two-dimensional structures using conventional lithography, but the
fabrication of three-dimensional photonic crystal structures for the visible
spectrum remains a considerable challenge. Here we describe a
technique--three-dimensional holographic lithography--that is well suited to the 
production of three-dimensional structures with sub-micrometre periodicity. With 
this technique we have made microperiodic polymeric structures, and we have used 
these as templates to create complementary structures with higher
refractive-index contrast.

DOI: 10.1038/35003523 
PMID: 10716437 


836. Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):50-2.

Evidence of atmospheric sulphur in the martian regolith from sulphur isotopes in 
meteorites.

Farquhar J(1), Savarino J, Jackson TL, Thiemens MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla 92093, 
USA. jfarquha@ucsd.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):32.

Sulphur is abundant at the martian surface, yet its origin and evolution over
time remain poorly constrained. This sulphur is likely to have originated in
atmospheric chemical reactions, and so should provide records of the evolution of
the martian atmosphere, the cycling of sulphur between the atmosphere and crust, 
and the mobility of sulphur in the martian regolith. Moreover, the atmospheric
deposition of oxidized sulphur species could establish chemical potential
gradients in the martian near-surface environment, and so provide a potential
energy source for chemolithoautotrophic organisms. Here we present measurements
of sulphur isotopes in oxidized and reduced phases from the SNC meteorites--the
group of related achondrite meteorites believed to have originated on
Mars--together with the results of laboratory photolysis studies of two important
martian atmospheric sulphur species (SO2 and H2S). The photolysis experiments can
account for the observed sulphur-isotope compositions in the SNC meteorites, and 
so identify a mechanism for producing large abiogenic 34S fractionations in the
surface sulphur reservoirs. We conclude that the sulphur data from the SNC
meteorites reflects deposition of oxidized sulphur species produced by
atmospheric chemical reactions, followed by incorporation, reaction and
mobilization of the sulphur within the regolith.

DOI: 10.1038/35003517 
PMID: 10716436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):42-9.

A ribonucleotide reductase gene involved in a p53-dependent cell-cycle checkpoint
for DNA damage.

Tanaka H(1), Arakawa H, Yamaguchi T, Shiraishi K, Fukuda S, Matsui K, Takei Y,
Nakamura Y.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Medicine, Human Genome Center, Institute of Medical
Science, The University of Tokyo, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):24-5.

The p53 gene is frequently inactivated in human cancers. Here we have isolated a 
p53-inducible gene, p53R2, by using differential display to examine messenger
RNAs in a cancer-derived human cell line carrying a highly regulated wild-type
p53 expression system. p53R2 contains a p53-binding sequence in intron 1 and
encodes a 351-amino-acid peptide with striking similarity to the ribonucleotide
reductase small subunit (R2), which is important in DNA synthesis during cell
division. Expression of p53R2, but not R2, was induced by ultraviolet and
gamma-irradiation and adriamycin treatment in a wild-type p53-dependent manner.
Induction of p53R2 in p53-deficient cells caused G2/M arrest and prevented cells 
from death in response to adriamycin. Inhibition of endogenous p53R2 expression
in cells that have an intact p53-dependent DNA damage checkpoint reduced
ribonucleotide reductase activity, DNA repair and cell survival after exposure to
various genotoxins. Our results indicate that p53R2 encodes a ribonucleotide
reductase that is directly involved in the p53 checkpoint for repair of damaged
DNA. The discovery of p53R2 clarifies a relationship between a ribonucleotide
reductase activity involved in repair of damaged DNA and tumour suppression by
p53.

DOI: 10.1038/35003506 
PMID: 10716435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Nature. 2000 Mar 2;404(6773):37-41.

The importance of repairing stalled replication forks.

Cox MM(1), Goodman MF, Kreuzer KN, Sherratt DJ, Sandler SJ, Marians KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 53706-1544, USA.

The bacterial SOS response to unusual levels of DNA damage has been recognized
and studied for several decades. Pathways for re-establishing inactivated
replication forks under normal growth conditions have received far less
attention. In bacteria growing aerobically in the absence of SOS-inducing
conditions, many replication forks encounter DNA damage, leading to inactivation.
The pathways for fork reactivation involve the homologous recombination systems, 
are nonmutagenic, and integrate almost every aspect of DNA metabolism. On a
frequency-of-use basis, these pathways represent the main function of bacterial
DNA recombination systems, as well as the main function of a number of other
enzymatic systems that are associated with replication and site-specific
recombination.

DOI: 10.1038/35003501 
PMID: 10716434  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):921-3.

Structure of a ligand-binding intermediate in wild-type carbonmonoxy myoglobin.

Chu K(1), Vojtchovský J, McMahon BH, Sweet RM, Berendzen J, Schlichting I.

Author information: 
(1)P-21 Biophysics Group, Los Alamos National Laboratory, New Mexico, 87545, USA.
kelvin.chu@uvm.edu

Small molecules such as NO, O2, CO or H2 are important biological ligands that
bind to metalloproteins to function crucially in processes such as signal
transduction, respiration and catalysis. A key issue for understanding the
regulation of reaction mechanisms in these systems is whether ligands gain access
to the binding sites through specific channels and docking sites, or by random
diffusion through the protein matrix. A model system for studying this issue is
myoglobin, a simple haem protein. Myoglobin has been studied extensively by
spectroscopy, crystallography, computation and theory. It serves as an aid to
oxygen diffusion but also binds carbon monoxide, a byproduct of endogenous haem
catabolism. Molecular dynamics simulations, random mutagenesis and flash
photolysis studies indicate that ligand migration occurs through a limited number
of pathways involving docking sites. Here we report the 1.4 A resolution crystal 
structure of a ligand-binding intermediate in carbonmonoxy myoglobin that may
have far-reaching implications for understanding the dynamics of ligand binding
and catalysis.

DOI: 10.1038/35002641 
PMID: 10706294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):916-21.

Structure of the winged-helix protein hRFX1 reveals a new mode of DNA binding.

Gajiwala KS(1), Chen H, Cornille F, Roques BP, Reith W, Mach B, Burley SK.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratories of Molecular Biophysics, Pels Family Center for Biochemistry and 
Structural Biology, The Rockefeller University, New York, New York 10021, USA.

Regulatory factor X (RFX) proteins are transcriptional activators that recognize 
X-boxes (DNA of the sequence 5'-GTNRCC(0-3N)RGYAAC-3', where N is any nucleotide,
R is a purine and Y is a pyrimidine) using a highly conserved 76-residue
DNA-binding domain (DBD). DNA-binding defects in the protein RFX5 cause bare
lymphocyte syndrome or major histocompatibility antigen class II deficiency.
RFX1, -2 and -3 regulate expression of other medically important gene products
(for example, interleukin-5 receptor alpha chain, IL-5R alpha). Fusions of the
ligand-binding domain of the oestrogen receptor with the DBD of RFX4 occur in
some human breast tumours. Here we present a 1.5 A-resolution structure of two
copies of the DBD of human RFX1 (hRFX1) binding cooperatively to a symmetrical
X-box. hRFX1 is an unusual member of the winged-helix subfamily of
helix-turn-helix proteins because it uses a beta-hairpin (or wing) to recognize
DNA instead of the recognition helix typical of helix-turn-helix proteins. A new 
model for interactions between linker histones and DNA is proposed.

DOI: 10.1038/35002634 
PMID: 10706293  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


841. Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):913-6.

The S receptor kinase determines self-incompatibility in Brassica stigma.

Takasaki T(1), Hatakeyama K, Suzuki G, Watanabe M, Isogai A, Hinata K.

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute of Seed Production Co., Ltd., Sendai, Japan.
taka@kobe-u.ac.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):840-1.

The self-incompatibility possessed by Brassica is an intraspecific reproductive
barrier by which the stigma rejects self-pollen but accepts non-self-pollen for
fertilization. The molecular/biochemical bases of recognition and rejection have 
been intensively studied. Self-incompatibility in Brassica is sporophytically
controlled by the polymorphic S locus. Two tightly linked polymorphic genes at
the S locus, S receptor kinase gene (SRK) and S locus glycoprotein gene (SLG),
are specifically expressed in the papillar cells of the stigma, and analyses of
self-compatible lines of Brassica have suggested that together they control
stigma function in self-incompatibility interactions. Here we show, by
transforming self-incompatible plants of Brassica rapa with an SRK28 and an SLG28
transgene separately, that expression of SRK28 alone, but not SLG28 alone,
conferred the ability to reject self (S28)-pollen on the transgenic plants. We
also show that the ability of SRK28 to reject S28 pollen was enhanced by SLG28.
We conclude that SRK alone determines S haplotype specificity of the stigma, and 
that SLG acts to promote a full manifestation of the self-incompatibility
response.

DOI: 10.1038/35002628 
PMID: 10706292  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):909-13.

The LIM homeobox gene Lhx9 is essential for mouse gonad formation.

Birk OS(1), Casiano DE, Wassif CA, Cogliati T, Zhao L, Zhao Y, Grinberg A, Huang 
S, Kreidberg JA, Parker KL, Porter FD, Westphal H.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Mammalian Genes and Development, National Institute of Child
Health and Human Development, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

During mammalian embryonic development, the ovaries and testes develop from
somatic cells of the urogenital ridges as indifferent gonads, harbouring
primordial germ cells that have migrated there. After sex determination of the
gonads, the testes produce testosterone and anti-Mullerian hormone which mediate 
male sexual differentiation, and the female developmental pathway ensues in their
absence. Here we show that transcripts of the LIM homeobox gene Lhx9 are present 
in urogenital ridges of mice at embryonic day 9.5; later they localize to the
interstitial region as morphological differentiation occurs. In mice lacking Lhx9
function, germ cells migrate normally, but somatic cells of the genital ridge
fail to proliferate and a discrete gonad fails to form. In the absence of
testosterone and anti-Mullerian hormone, genetically male mice are phenotypically
female. The expression of steroidogenic factor 1 (Sf1), a nuclear receptor
essential for gonadogenesis, is reduced to minimal levels in the Lhx9-deficient
genital ridge, indicating that Lhx9 may lie upstream of Sf1 in a developmental
cascade. Unlike mice lacking other genes that mediate early stages of
gonadogenesis, Lhx9 mutants do not exhibit additional major developmental
defects. Thus, LHX9 mutations may underlie certain forms of isolated gonadal
agenesis in humans.

DOI: 10.1038/35002622 
PMID: 10706291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):906-9.

Pgh1 modulates sensitivity and resistance to multiple antimalarials in Plasmodium
falciparum.

Reed MB(1), Saliba KJ, Caruana SR, Kirk K, Cowman AF.

Author information: 
(1)The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.

Throughout the latter half of this century, the development and spread of
resistance to most front-line antimalarial compounds used in the prevention and
treatment of the most severe form of human malaria has given cause for grave
clinical concern. Polymorphisms in pfmdr1, the gene encoding the P-glycoprotein
homologue 1 (Pgh1) protein of Plasmodium falciparum, have been linked to
chloroquine resistance; Pgh1 has also been implicated in resistance to mefloquine
and halofantrine. However, conclusive evidence of a direct causal association
between pfmdr1 and resistance to these antimalarials has remained elusive, and a 
single genetic cross has suggested that Pgh1 is not involved in resistance to
chloroquine and mefloquine. Here we provide direct proof that mutations in Pgh1
can confer resistance to mefloquine, quinine and halofantrine. The same mutations
influence parasite resistance towards chloroquine in a strain-specific manner and
the level of sensitivity to the structurally unrelated compound, artemisinin.
This has important implications for the development and efficacy of future
antimalarial agents.

DOI: 10.1038/35002615 
PMID: 10706290  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):901-6.

The 21-nucleotide let-7 RNA regulates developmental timing in Caenorhabditis
elegans.

Reinhart BJ(1), Slack FJ, Basson M, Pasquinelli AE, Bettinger JC, Rougvie AE,
Horvitz HR, Ruvkun G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, and Harvard
Medical School, Boston 02114, USA.

The C. elegans heterochronic gene pathway consists of a cascade of regulatory
genes that are temporally controlled to specify the timing of developmental
events. Mutations in heterochronic genes cause temporal transformations in cell
fates in which stage-specific events are omitted or reiterated. Here we show that
let-7 is a heterochronic switch gene. Loss of let-7 gene activity causes
reiteration of larval cell fates during the adult stage, whereas increased let-7 
gene dosage causes precocious expression of adult fates during larval stages.
let-7 encodes a temporally regulated 21-nucleotide RNA that is complementary to
elements in the 3' untranslated regions of the heterochronic genes lin-14,
lin-28, lin-41, lin-42 and daf-12, indicating that expression of these genes may 
be directly controlled by let-7. A reporter gene bearing the lin-41 3'
untranslated region is temporally regulated in a let-7-dependent manner. A second
regulatory RNA, lin-4, negatively regulates lin-14 and lin-28 through RNA-RNA
interactions with their 3' untranslated regions. We propose that the sequential
stage-specific expression of the lin-4 and let-7 regulatory RNAs triggers
transitions in the complement of heterochronic regulatory proteins to coordinate 
developmental timing.

DOI: 10.1038/35002607 
PMID: 10706289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):898-901.

Three distinct and sequential steps in the release of sodium ions by the
Na+/K+-ATPase.

Holmgren M(1), Wagg J, Bezanilla F, Rakowski RF, De Weer P, Gadsby DC.

Author information: 
(1)The Marine Biological Laboratory, Woods Hole, Massachusetts 02543, USA.
miguel_holmgren@hms.harvard.edu

The Na+/K+ pump, a P-type ion-motive ATPase, exports three sodium ions and then
imports two potassium ions in each transport cycle. Ions on one side of the
membrane bind to sites within the protein and become temporarily occluded
(trapped within the protein) before being released to the other side, but details
of these occlusion and de-occlusion transitions remain obscure for all P-type
ATPases. If it is deprived of potassium ions, the Na+/K+ pump is restricted to
sodium translocation steps, at least one involving charge movement through the
membrane's electric fields. Changes in membrane potential alter the rate of such 
electrogenic reactions and so shift the distribution of enzyme conformations.
Here we use high-speed voltage jumps to initiate this redistribution and show
that the resulting pre-steady-state charge movements relax in three identifiable 
phases, apparently reflecting de-occlusion and release of the three sodium ions. 
Reciprocal relationships among the sizes of these three charge components show
that the three sodium ions are de-occluded and released to the extracellular
solution one at a time, in a strict order.

DOI: 10.1038/35002599 
PMID: 10706288  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):895-8.

A neurofibromatosis-1-regulated pathway is required for learning in Drosophila.

Guo HF(1), Tong J, Hannan F, Luo L, Zhong Y.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, New York 11724, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):846-7.

The tumour-suppressor gene Neurofibromatosis 1 (Nf1) encodes a Ras-specific
GTPase activating protein (Ras-GAP). In addition to being involved in tumour
formation, NF1 has been reported to cause learning defects in humans and Nf1
knockout mice. However, it remains to be determined whether the observed learning
defect is secondary to abnormal development. The Drosophila NF1 protein is highly
conserved, showing 60% identity of its 2,803 amino acids with human NF1 (ref.
12). Previous studies have suggested that Drosophila NF1 acts not only as a
Ras-GAP but also as a possible regulator of the cAMP pathway that involves the
rutabaga (rut)-encoded adenylyl cyclase. Because rut was isolated as a learning
and short-term memory mutant, we have pursued the hypothesis that NF1 may affect 
learning through its control of the Rut-adenylyl cyclase/cAMP pathway. Here we
show that NF1 affects learning and short-term memory independently of its
developmental effects. We show that G-protein-activated adenylyl cyclase activity
consists of NF1-independent and NF1-dependent components, and that the mechanism 
of the NF1-dependent activation of the Rut-adenylyl cyclase pathway is essential 
for mediating Drosophila learning and memory.

DOI: 10.1038/35002593 
PMID: 10706287  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):892-5.

Postsaccadic visual references generate presaccadic compression of space.

Lappe M(1), Awater H, Krekelberg B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology and Neurobiology, Ruhr-University Bochum, Germany.
lappe@neurobiologie.ruhr-uni-bochum.de

With every rapid gaze shift (saccade), our eyes experience a different view of
the world. Stable perception of visual space requires that points in the new
image are associated with corresponding points in the previous image. The brain
may use an extraretinal eye position signal to compensate for gaze changes, or,
alternatively, exploit the image contents to determine associated locations.
Support for a uniform extraretinal signal comes from findings that the apparent
position of objects briefly flashed around the time of a saccade is often shifted
in the direction of the saccade. This view is challenged, however, by
observations that the magnitude and direction of the displacement varies across
the visual field. Led by the observation that non-uniform displacements typically
occurred in studies conducted in slightly illuminated rooms, here we determine
the dependence of perisaccadic mislocalization on the availability of visual
spatial references at various times around a saccade. We find that presaccadic
compression occurs only if visual references are available immediately after,
rather than before or during, the saccade. Our findings indicate that the visual 
processes of transsaccadic spatial localization use mainly postsaccadic visual
information.

DOI: 10.1038/35002588 
PMID: 10706286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):889-92.

Thermal stimulation of taste.

Cruz A(1), Green BG.

Author information: 
(1)The John B. Pierce Laboratory, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut
06519, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):837, 839.

The first electrophysiological recordings from animal and human taste nerves gave
clear evidence of thermal sensitivity, and studies have shown that as many as
half of the neurons in mammalian taste pathways respond to temperature. Because
temperature has never been shown to induce sensations of taste, it has been
assumed that thermal stimulation in the gustatory system is somehow nulled. Here 
we show that heating or cooling small areas of the tongue can in fact cause
sensations of taste: warming the anterior edge of the tongue (chorda tympani
nerve) from a cold temperature can evoke sweetness, whereas cooling can evoke
sourness and/or saltiness. Thermal taste also occurs on the rear of the tongue
(glossopharyngeal nerve), but the relationship between temperature and taste is
different there than on the front of the tongue. These observations indicate the 
human gustatory system contains several different types of thermally sensitive
neurons that normally contribute to the sensory code for taste.

DOI: 10.1038/35002581 
PMID: 10706285  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):886-9.

Rapid evolution of reproductive barriers driven by sexual conflict.

Gavrilets S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Tennessee,
Knoxville 37996-1610, USA. sergey@tiem.utk.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Sep 14;407(6801):149-50.

A growing amount of experimental data indicates extremely rapid evolution of
traits and proteins related to fertilization in many diverging taxa. These data
come from studies of sperm or pollen competition between closely related species,
and from molecular studies of fertilization proteins. The positive selection for 
evolutionary novelty that appears to be acting on fertilization systems seems
paradoxical because successful reproduction requires the close matching of female
and male traits. It has been suggested that perpetual coevolution between the
sexes can result from sexual conflict in mating. Sexual conflict occurs when
characteristics that enhance the reproductive success of one sex reduce the
fitness of the other sex. Numerous examples of sexual conflict resulting from
sensory exploitation, polyspermy and the cost of mating have been discussed in
detail. The potential for coevolution due to such conflict has been evaluated
experimentally. Here I develop a simple mathematical model describing
coevolutionary dynamics of male and female traits involved in reproduction. The
model shows that continual change in such traits at a constant speed is expected 
whenever females (or eggs) experience fitness loss from having too many
compatible males (or sperms). The plausibility of runaway coevolution increases
with increasing population size. Rapid evolution of reproductive barriers driven 
by sexual conflict may explain increased speciation rates after colonization of
new habitats ('adaptive radiation') and high species richness in resource-rich
environments.

DOI: 10.1038/35002564 
PMID: 10706284  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):883-6.

An interconnected network of core-forming melts produced by shear deformation

Bruhn D(1), Groebner N, Kohlstedt DL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology & Geophysics, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis
55455, USA. bruhn@olivine.geology.umn.edu

The formation mechanism of terrestrial planetary cores is still poorly
understood, and has been the subject of numerous experimental studies. Several
mechanisms have been proposed by which metal--mainly iron with some nickel--could
have been extracted from a silicate mantle to form the core. Most recent models
involve gravitational sinking of molten metal or metal sulphide through a
partially or fully molten mantle that is often referred to as a 'magma ocean'.
Alternative models invoke percolation of molten metal along an interconnected
network (that is, porous flow) through a solid silicate matrix. But experimental 
studies performed at high pressures have shown that, under hydrostatic
conditions, these melts do not form an interconnected network, leading to the
widespread assumption that formation of metallic cores requires a magma ocean. In
contrast, here we present experiments which demonstrate that shear deformation to
large strains can interconnect a significant fraction of initially isolated
pockets of metal and metal sulphide melts in a solid matrix of polycrystalline
olivine. Therefore, in a dynamic (non-hydrostatic) environment, percolation
remains a viable mechanism for the segregation and migration of core-forming
melts in a solid silicate mantle.

DOI: 10.1038/35002558 
PMID: 10706283 


851. Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):880-3.

A thermodynamic explanation for black smoker temperatures

Jupp T(1), Schultz A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Theoretical Geophysics, Department of Earth Sciences, University 
of Cambridge, UK. tim@itg.cam.ac.uk

There is a remarkable difference between the maximum temperature of black smoker 
effluent (350 degrees C-400 degrees C) and the temperature of the solidifying
magma which heats it (approximately 1,200 degrees C). It has been suspected for
some time that the nonlinear thermodynamic properties of water might be
responsible for this discrepancy. Here, we translate this hypothesis into a
physical model, by examining the internal temperature structure of convection
cells in a porous medium. We demonstrate that, at pressures appropriate to
seafloor crust, plumes of pure water form naturally at approximately 400 degrees 
C for any heat source with temperature greater than approximately 500 degrees C. 
Higher temperatures are confined to a boundary layer at the base of the
convection cell, where the flow is horizontal. The phenomenon is explained
analytically using the thermodynamic properties of water, and is illustrated by
numerical simulations. Our model predicts the existence of the high-temperature
'reaction zone' found in ophiolites and suggests that vent temperatures will
remain steady as magma chambers solidify and cool.

DOI: 10.1038/35002552 
PMID: 10706282 


852. Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):877-80.

Variations of Younger Dryas atmospheric radiocarbon explicable without ocean
circulation changes

Goslar T(1), Arnold M, Tisnerat-Laborde N, Czernik J, Wieckowski K.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physics, Silesian Technical University, Gliwice, Poland.
goslar@zeus.polsl.gliwice.pl

The concentration of radiocarbon, 14C, in the atmosphere depends on its
production rate by cosmic rays, and on the intensity of carbon exchange between
the atmosphere and other reservoirs, for example the deep oceans. For the
Holocene (the past approximately 11,500 years), it has been shown that
fluctuations in atmospheric radiocarbon concentrations have been caused mostly by
variations in the solar magnetic field. Recent progress in extending the
radiocarbon record backwards in time has indicated especially high atmospheric
radiocarbon concentrations in the Younger Dryas cold period, between 12,700 and
11,500 years before the present. These high concentrations have been interpreted 
as a result of a reduced exchange with the deep-ocean reservoir, caused by a
drastic weakening of the deep-ocean ventilation. Here we present a
high-resolution reconstruction of atmospheric radiocarbon concentrations, derived
from annually laminated sediments of two Polish lakes, Lake Gosciaz and Lake
Perespilno. These records indicate that the maximum in atmospheric radiocarbon
concentrations in the early Younger Dryas was smaller than previously believed,
and might have been caused by variations in solar activity. If so, there is no
indication that the deep-ocean ventilation in the Younger Dryas was significantly
different from today's.

DOI: 10.1038/35002547 
PMID: 10706281 


853. Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):874-7.

Electrically induced structure formation and pattern transfer

Schaffer E(1), Thurn-Albrecht T, Russell TP, Steiner U.

Author information: 
(1)Fakultat fur Physik, Unviersitat Konstanz, Germany.

The wavelength of light represents a fundamental technological barrier to the
production of increasingly smaller features on integrated circuits. New
technologies that allow the replication of patterns on scales less than 100 nm
need to be developed if increases in computing power are to continue at the
present rate. Here we report a simple electrostatic technique that creates and
replicates lateral structures in polymer films on a submicrometre length scale.
Our method is based on the fact that dielectric media experience a force in an
electric field gradient. Strong field gradients can produce forces that overcome 
the surface tension in thin liquid films, inducing an instability that features a
characteristic hexagonal order. In our experiments, pattern formation takes place
in polymer films at elevated temperatures, and is fixed by cooling the sample to 
room temperature. The application of a laterally varying electric field causes
the instability to be focused in the direction of the highest electric field.
This results in the replication of a topographically structured electrode. We
report patterns with lateral dimensions of 140 nm, but the extension of the
technique to pattern replication on scales smaller than 100 nm seems feasible.

DOI: 10.1038/35002540 
PMID: 10706280 


854. Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):871-4.

Reduction in the surface energy of liquid interfaces at short length scales

Fradin C(1), Braslau A, Luzet D, Smilgies D, Alba M, Boudet N, Mecke K, Daillant 
J.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Physique de l'Etat Condense, CEA Saclay, Gif-sur-Yvette, France.

Liquid-vapour interfaces, particularly those involving water, are common in both 
natural and artificial environments. They were first described as regions of
continuous variation of density, caused by density fluctuations within the bulk
phases. In contrast, the more recent capillary-wave models assumes a step-like
local density profile across the liquid-vapour interface, whose width is the
result of the propagation of thermally excited capillary waves. The model has
been validated for length scales of tenths of micrometres and larger, but the
structure of liquid surfaces on submicrometre length scales--where the capillary 
theory is expected to break down--remains poorly understood. Here we report
grazing-incidence X-ray scattering experiments that allow for a complete
determination of the free surface structure and surface energy for water and a
range of organic liquids. We observe a large decrease of up to 75% in the surface
energy of submicrometre waves that cannot be explained by capillary theory, but
is in accord with the effects arising from the non-locality of attractive
intermolecule interactions as predicted by a recent density functional theory.
Our data, and the results of comparable measurements on liquid solutions,
metallic alloys, surfactants, lipids and wetting films should thus provide a
stringent test for any new theories that attempt to describe the structure of
liquid interfaces with nanometre-scale resolution.

DOI: 10.1038/35002533 
PMID: 10706279 


855. Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):869-71.

Geometric quantum computation using nuclear magnetic resonance

Jones JA(1), Vedral V V, Ekert A, Castagnoli G.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Quantum Computation, Clarendon Laboratory, Oxford, UK.
jonathan.jones@qubit.org

A significant development in computing has been the discovery that the
computational power of quantum computers exceeds that of Turing machines. Central
to the experimental realization of quantum information processing is the
construction of fault-tolerant quantum logic gates. Their operation requires
conditional quantum dynamics, in which one sub-system undergoes a coherent
evolution that depends on the quantum state of another sub-system; in particular,
the evolving sub-system may acquire a conditional phase shift. Although
conventionally dynamic in origin, phase shifts can also be geometric. Conditional
geometric (or 'Berry') phases depend only on the geometry of the path executed,
and are therefore resilient to certain types of errors; this suggests the
possibility of an intrinsically fault-tolerant way of performing quantum gate
operations. Nuclear magnetic resonance techniques have already been used to
demonstrate both simple quantum information processing and geometric phase
shifts. Here we combine these ideas by performing a nuclear magnetic resonance
experiment in which a conditional Berry phase is implemented, demonstrating a
controlled phase shift gate.

DOI: 10.1038/35002528 
PMID: 10706278 


856. Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):867-9.

Formation of molecular gas in the tidal debris of violent galaxy-galaxy
interactions.

Braine J(1), Lisenfeld U, Duc PA, Leon S.

Author information: 
(1)Observatoire de Bordeaux, UMR 5804, CNRS/INSU, BP89, Floirac, France.
Jonathan.Braine@observ.u-bordeaux.fr

Erratum in
    Nature 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):904. Due PA [corrected to Duc PA].

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):841, 843.

In many gravitational interactions between galaxies, gas and stars that have been
torn from the precursor galaxies can collect in tidal 'tails'. Star formation
begins anew in some of these regions, producing tidal dwarf galaxies.
Observations of these new galaxies provides insight into processes relevant to
galaxy formation more generally, because the timescale of the interaction is well
defined. But tracking the star formation process has hitherto been difficult
because the tidal dwarf galaxies with young stars showed no evidence of the
molecular gas out of which those young stars formed. Here we report the discovery
of molecular hydrogen (traced by carbon monoxide emission) in two tidal dwarf
galaxies. In both cases, the concentration of molecular gas peaks at the same
location as the maximum in atomic-hydrogen density, unlike the situation in most 
gas-rich galaxies. We infer from this that the molecular gas formed from the
atomic hydrogen, rather than being torn in molecular form from the interacting
galaxies. Star formation in the tidal dwarf galaxies therefore appears to mimic
the process in normal spiral galaxies like our own.

DOI: 10.1038/35002521 
PMID: 10706277  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):859-66.

Structural basis for recognition and repair of the endogenous mutagen
8-oxoguanine in DNA.

Bruner SD(1), Norman DP, Verdine GL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Spontaneous oxidation of guanine residues in DNA generates 8-oxoguanine (oxoG).
By mispairing with adenine during replication, oxoG gives rise to a G x C --> T x
A transversion, a frequent somatic mutation in human cancers. The dedicated
repair pathway for oxoG centres on 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase (hOGG1), an
enzyme that recognizes oxoG x C base pairs, catalysing expulsion of the oxoG and 
cleavage of the DNA backbone. Here we report the X-ray structure of the catalytic
core of hOGG1 bound to oxoG x C-containing DNA at 2.1 A resolution. The structure
reveals the mechanistic basis for the recognition and catalytic excision of DNA
damage by hOGG1 and by other members of the enzyme superfamily to which it
belongs. The structure also provides a rationale for the biochemical effects of
inactivating mutations and polymorphisms in hOGG1. One known mutation, R154H,
converts hOGG1 to a promutator by relaxing the specificity of the enzyme for the 
base opposite oxoG.

DOI: 10.1038/35002510 
PMID: 10706276  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):853-8.

Biodiversity hotspots for conservation priorities.

Myers N(1), Mittermeier RA, Mittermeier CG, da Fonseca GA, Kent J.

Author information: 
(1)Green College, Oxford University, Headington, UK. myers1n@aol.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Feb 24;403(6772):843-5.
    Nature. 2000 May 25;405(6785):393.
    Nature. 2001 Jan 4;409(6816):12.

Conservationists are far from able to assist all species under threat, if only
for lack of funding. This places a premium on priorities: how can we support the 
most species at the least cost? One way is to identify 'biodiversity hotspots'
where exceptional concentrations of endemic species are undergoing exceptional
loss of habitat. As many as 44% of all species of vascular plants and 35% of all 
species in four vertebrate groups are confined to 25 hotspots comprising only
1.4% of the land surface of the Earth. This opens the way for a 'silver bullet'
strategy on the part of conservation planners, focusing on these hotspots in
proportion to their share of the world's species at risk.

DOI: 10.1038/35002501 
PMID: 10706275  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):805-9.

Structure of the intact transactivation domain of the human papillomavirus E2
protein.

Antson AA(1), Burns JE, Moroz OV, Scott DJ, Sanders CM, Bronstein IB, Dodson GG, 
Wilson KS, Maitland NJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of York, UK.

Papillomaviruses cause warts and proliferative lesions in skin and other
epithelia. In a minority of papillomavirus types ('high risk, including human
papillomaviruses 16, 18, 31, 33, 45 and 56), further transformation of the wart
lesions can produce tumours. The papillomavirus E2 protein controls primary
transcription and replication of the viral genome. Both activities are governed
by a approximately 200 amino-acid amino-terminal module (E2NT) which is connected
to a DNA-binding carboxy-terminal module by a flexible linker. Here we describe
the crystal structure of the complete E2NT module from human papillomavirus 16.
The E2NT module forms a dimer both in the crystal and in solution. Amino acids
that are necessary for transactivation are located at the dimer interface,
indicating that the dimer structure may be important in the interactions of E2NT 
with viral and cellular transcription factors. We propose that dimer formation
may contribute to the stabilization of DNA loops which may serve to relocate
distal DNA-binding transcription factors to the site of human papillomavirus
transcription initiation.

DOI: 10.1038/35001638 
PMID: 10693813  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):800-5.

The structures of HsIU and the ATP-dependent protease HsIU-HsIV.

Bochtler M(1), Hartmann C, Song HK, Bourenkov GP, Bartunik HD, Huber R.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Biochemie, Planegg, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Dec 7;408(6813):667-8.

The degradation of cytoplasmic proteins is an ATP-dependent process. Substrates
are targeted to a single soluble protease, the 26S proteasome, in eukaryotes and 
to a number of unrelated proteases in prokaryotes. A surprising link emerged with
the discovery of the ATP-dependent protease HslVU (heat shock locus VU) in
Escherichia coli. Its protease component HslV shares approximately 20% sequence
similarity and a conserved fold with 20S proteasome beta-subunits. HslU is a
member of the Hsp100 (Clp) family of ATPases. Here we report the crystal
structures of free HslU and an 820,000 relative molecular mass complex of HslU
and HslV-the first structure of a complete set of components of an ATP-dependent 
protease. HslV and HslU display sixfold symmetry, ruling out mechanisms of
protease activation that require a symmetry mismatch between the two components. 
Instead, there is conformational flexibility and domain motion in HslU and a
localized order-disorder transition in HslV. Individual subunits of HslU contain 
two globular domains in relative orientations that correlate with nucleotide
bound and unbound states. They are surprisingly similar to their counterparts in 
N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein, the prototype of an AAA-ATPase. A
third, mostly alpha-helical domain in HslU mediates the contact with HslV and may
be the structural equivalent of the amino-terminal domains in proteasomal
AAA-ATPases.

DOI: 10.1038/35001629 
PMID: 10693812  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):795-800.

Transcriptional silencing and longevity protein Sir2 is an NAD-dependent histone 
deacetylase.

Imai S(1), Armstrong CM, Kaeberlein M, Guarente L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 02139,
USA.

Yeast Sir2 is a heterochromatin component that silences transcription at silent
mating loci, telomeres and the ribosomal DNA, and that also suppresses
recombination in the rDNA and extends replicative life span. Mutational studies
indicate that lysine 16 in the amino-terminal tail of histone H4 and lysines 9,
14 and 18 in H3 are critically important in silencing, whereas lysines 5, 8 and
12 of H4 have more redundant functions. Lysines 9 and 14 of histone H3 and
lysines 5, 8 and 16 of H4 are acetylated in active chromatin and hypoacetylated
in silenced chromatin, and overexpression of Sir2 promotes global deacetylation
of histones, indicating that Sir2 may be a histone deacetylase. Deacetylation of 
lysine 16 of H4 is necessary for binding the silencing protein, Sir3. Here we
show that yeast and mouse Sir2 proteins are nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide
(NAD)-dependent histone deacetylases, which deacetylate lysines 9 and 14 of H3
and specifically lysine 16 of H4. Our analysis of two SIR2 mutations supports the
idea that this deacetylase activity accounts for silencing, recombination
suppression and extension of life span in vivo. These findings provide a
molecular framework of NAD-dependent histone deacetylation that connects
metabolism, genomic silencing and ageing in yeast and, perhaps, in higher
eukaryotes.

DOI: 10.1038/35001622 
PMID: 10693811  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):789-95.

naked cuticle encodes an inducible antagonist of Wnt signalling.

Zeng W(1), Wharton KA Jr, Mack JA, Wang K, Gadbaw M, Suyama K, Klein PS, Scott
MP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Biology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Beckman 
Center, Stanford University School of Medicine, California 94305, USA.

During animal development, cells have to respond appropriately to localized
secreted signals. Proper responses to Hedgehog, transforming growth factor-beta, 
epidermal growth factor and fibroblast growth factor/Ras signals require cognate 
inducible antagonists such as Patched, Dad, Argos and Sprouty. Wnt signals are
crucial in development and neoplasia. Here we show that naked cuticle (nkd), a
Drosophila segment-polarity gene, encodes an inducible antagonist for the Wnt
signal Wingless (Wg). In fly embryos and imaginal discs nkd transcription is
induced by Wg. In embryos, decreased nkd function has an effect similar to excess
Wg; at later stages such a decrease appears to have no effect. Conversely,
overproduction of Nkd in Drosophila and misexpression of Nkd in the vertebrate
Xenopus laevis result in phenotypes resembling those of loss of Wg/Wnt function. 
nkd encodes a protein with a single EF hand (a calcium-binding motif) that is
most similar to the recoverin family of myristoyl switch proteins. Nkd may
therefore link ion fluxes to the regulation of the potency, duration or
distribution of Wnt signals. Signal-inducible feedback antagonists such as nkd
may limit the effects of Wnt proteins in development and disease.

DOI: 10.1038/35001615 
PMID: 10693810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):785-9.

Syncytin is a captive retroviral envelope protein involved in human placental
morphogenesis.

Mi S(1), Lee X, Li X, Veldman GM, Finnerty H, Racie L, LaVallie E, Tang XY,
Edouard P, Howes S, Keith JC Jr, McCoy JM.

Author information: 
(1)Genetics Institute, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts 02140, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):715, 717.

Many mammalian viruses have acquired genes from their hosts during their
evolution. The rationale for these acquisitions is usually quite clear: the
captured genes are subverted to provide a selective advantage to the virus. Here 
we describe the opposite situation, where a viral gene has been sequestered to
serve an important function in the physiology of a mammalian host. This gene,
encoding a protein that we have called syncytin, is the envelope gene of a
recently identified human endogenous defective retrovirus, HERV-W. We find that
the major sites of syncytin expression are placental syncytiotrophoblasts,
multinucleated cells that originate from fetal trophoblasts. We show that
expression of recombinant syncytin in a wide variety of cell types induces the
formation of giant syncytia, and that fusion of a human trophoblastic cell line
expressing endogenous syncytin can be inhibited by an anti-syncytin antiserum.
Our data indicate that syncytin may mediate placental cytotrophoblast fusion in
vivo, and thus may be important in human placental morphogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/35001608 
PMID: 10693809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):781-5.

Interaction between Wnt and TGF-beta signalling pathways during formation of
Spemann's organizer.

Nishita M(1), Hashimoto MK, Ogata S, Laurent MN, Ueno N, Shibuya H, Cho KW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Biology, National Institute for Basic Biology,
Okazaki, Japan.

Members of the Wnt and TGF-beta superfamilies regulate both cell fate and
proliferation during development and tissue maintenance. In the early amphibian
embryo, the Wnt and TGF-beta superfamily signalling cascades are required for the
establishment of a dorsal signalling centre, Spemann's organizer. Intracellular
proteins of both pathways, upon activation, translocate to the nucleus to
participate in transcription. Here we show that beta-catenin and Lef1/Tcf, which 
are downstream components of the Wnt signalling cascade, form a complex with
Smad4, an essential mediator of signals initiated by members of the TGF-beta
growth factor superfamily. In Xenopus, this interaction directly and
synergistically affects expression of the twin (Xtwn) gene during formation of
the organizer. This is, to our knowledge, the first demonstration of a physical
interaction between TGF-beta and Wnt signalling components in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/35001602 
PMID: 10693808  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):776-81.

Positional cloning of zebrafish ferroportin1 identifies a conserved vertebrate
iron exporter.

Donovan A(1), Brownlie A, Zhou Y, Shepard J, Pratt SJ, Moynihan J, Paw BH, Drejer
A, Barut B, Zapata A, Law TC, Brugnara C, Lux SE, Pinkus GS, Pinkus JL, Kingsley 
PD, Palis J, Fleming MD, Andrews NC, Zon LI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Children's Hospital and Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):711, 713.

Defects in iron absorption and utilization lead to iron deficiency and overload
disorders. Adult mammals absorb iron through the duodenum, whereas embryos obtain
iron through placental transport. Iron uptake from the intestinal lumen through
the apical surface of polarized duodenal enterocytes is mediated by the divalent 
metal transporter, DMTi. A second transporter has been postulated to export iron 
across the basolateral surface to the circulation. Here we have used positional
cloning to identify the gene responsible for the hypochromic anaemia of the
zebrafish mutant weissherbst. The gene, ferroportin1, encodes a
multiple-transmembrane domain protein, expressed in the yolk sac, that is a
candidate for the elusive iron exporter. Zebrafish ferroportin1 is required for
the transport of iron from maternally derived yolk stores to the circulation and 
functions as an iron exporter when expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Human
Ferroportin1 is found at the basal surface of placental syncytiotrophoblasts,
suggesting that it also transports iron from mother to embryo. Mammalian
Ferroportin1 is expressed at the basolateral surface of duodenal enterocytes and 
could export cellular iron into the circulation. We propose that Ferroportin1
function may be perturbed in mammalian disorders of iron deficiency or overload.

DOI: 10.1038/35001596 
PMID: 10693807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):773-6.

Mapping the conformational wave of acetylcholine receptor channel gating.

Grosman C(1), Zhou M, Auerbach A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, State University of New York at
Buffalo, 14214, USA. grosman@buffalo.edu

Allosteric transitions allow fast regulation of protein function in living
systems. Even though the end points of such conformational changes are known for 
many proteins, the characteristics of the paths connecting these states remain
largely unexplored. Rate-equilibrium linear free-energy relationships (LFERs)
provide information about such pathways by relating changes in the free energy of
the transition state to those of the ground states upon systematic perturbation
of the system. Here we present an LFER analysis of the gating reaction pathway of
the muscle acetylcholine receptor. We studied the closed <==> open conformational
change at the single-molecule level following perturbation by series of
single-site mutations, agonists and membrane voltages. This method provided a
snapshot of several regions of the receptor at the transition state in terms of
their approximate positions along the reaction coordinate, on a scale from 0
(closed-like) to 1 (open-like). The resulting map reveals a spatial gradient of
positional values, which suggests that the conformational change proceeds in a
wave-like manner, with the low-to-high affinity change at the transmitter-binding
sites preceding the complete opening of the pore.

DOI: 10.1038/35001586 
PMID: 10693806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):769-72.

Forebrain peptides modulate sexually polymorphic vocal circuitry.

Goodson JL(1), Bass AH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Behaviour, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York
14853, USA. jlg14@cornell.edu

The peptide arginine-vasopressin (mammals) and its evolutionary precursor
arginine-vasotocin (non-mammals) modulate reproductive physiology and numerous
related social behaviours, as do oxytocin (mammals) and its homologues mesotocin 
and isotocin (fish). The distributions in the brain and/or the behavioural
functions of these peptides often differ between the sexes, and between species
with divergent social structures. Here we present neurophysiological evidence
that males with vocal characteristics typical of females share a pattern of
neuropeptide function with females rather than conspecific males. The plainfin
midshipman fish (Porichthys notatus) has two male morphs with different
reproductive tactics and vocalizations (a key species-typical behaviour which
varies in its physical attributes and contextual usage, depending on the morph's 
social strategy). Forebrain-evoked, rhythmic vocal-motor activity that precisely 
mimics natural vocalizations was modulated by arginine-vasotocin, isotocin and
their antagonists delivered to the preoptic area-anterior hypothalamus, a primary
site for behavioural integration in all vertebrates. Peptides had different
effects in males that acoustically court females (arginine-vasotocin-sensitive)
than in females and sneak-spawning males (isotocin-sensitive), showing that the
neuromodulatory mechanisms that establish reproduction-related behaviour can be
dissociated from gonadal sex.

DOI: 10.1038/35001581 
PMID: 10693805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):764-9.

The mouse Dreher gene Lmx1a controls formation of the roof plate in the
vertebrate CNS.

Millonig JH(1), Millen KJ, Hatten ME.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Developmental Neurobiology, The Rockefeller University, New
York, New York 10021-6399, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):720-1.

In the vertebrate central nervous system (CNS), a cascade of signals that
originates in the ectoderm adjacent to the neural tube is propagated by the roof 
plate to dorsalize the neural tube. Here we report that the phenotype of the
spontaneous neurological mutant mouse dreher (dr) results from a failure of the
roof plate to develop. Dorsalization of the neural tube is consequently affected:
dorsal interneurons in the spinal cord and granule neurons in the cerebellar
cortex are lost, and the dorsal vertebral neural arches fail to form. Positional 
cloning of dreher indicates that the LIM homeodomain protein, Lmx1a, is affected 
in three different alleles of dreher. Lmx1a is expressed in the roof plate along 
the neuraxis during development of the CNS. Thus, Lmx1a is required for
development of the roof plate and, in turn, for specification of dorsal cell
fates in the CNS and developing vertebrae.

DOI: 10.1038/35001573 
PMID: 10693804  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):762-4.

Producer-decomposer co-dependency influences biodiversity effects.

Naeem S(1), Hahn DR, Schuurman G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Washington, Seattle 98195, USA.
naeems@u.washington.edu

Producers, such as plants and algae, acquire nutrients from inorganic sources
that are supplied primarily by decomposers whereas decomposers, mostly fungi and 
bacteria, acquire carbon from organic sources that are supplied primarily by
producers. This producer-decomposer co-dependency is important in governing
ecosystem processes, which implies that the impacts of declining biodiversity on 
ecosystem functioning should be strongly influenced by this process. Here we
show, by simultaneously manipulating producer (green algal) and decomposer
(heterotrophic bacterial) diversity in freshwater microcosms, that algal biomass 
production varies considerably among microcosms (0.0-0.67 mg ml(-1)), but that
neither algal nor bacterial diversity by itself can explain this variation.
Instead, production is a joint function of both algal and bacterial diversity.
Furthermore, the range in algal production in microscosms in which bacterial
diversity was manipulated was nearly double (1.82 times) that of microcosms in
which bacterial diversity was not manipulated. Measures of organic carbon use by 
bacteria in these microcosms indicate that carbon usage is the mechanism
responsible for these results. Because both producer and microbial diversity
respond to disturbance and habitat modification, the main causes of biodiversity 
loss, these results suggest that ecosystem response to changing biodiversity is
likely to be more complex than other studies have shown.

DOI: 10.1038/35001568 
PMID: 10693803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):758-61.

Effect of stream channel size on the delivery of nitrogen to the Gulf of Mexico

Alexander RB(1), Smith RA, Schwarz GE.

Author information: 
(1)U.S. Geological Survey, Reston, Virginia 20192, USA. ralex@usgs.gov

An increase in the flux of nitrogen from the Mississippi river during the latter 
half of the twentieth century has caused eutrophication and chronic seasonal
hypoxia in the shallow waters of the Louisiana shelf in the northern Gulf of
Mexico. This has led to reductions in species diversity, mortality of benthic
communities and stress in fishery resources. There is evidence for a
predominantly anthropogenic origin of the increased nitrogen flux, but the
location of the most significant sources in the Mississippi basin responsible for
the delivery of nitrogen to the Gulf of Mexico have not been clearly identified, 
because the parameters influencing nitrogen-loss rates in rivers are not well
known. Here we present an analysis of data from 374 US monitor ing stations,
including 123 along the six largest tributaries to the Mississippi, that shows a 
rapid decline in the average first-order rate of nitrogen loss with channel
size--from 0.45 day (-1) in small streams to 0.005 day (-1) in the Mississippi
river. Using stream depth as an explanatory variable, our estimates of
nitrogen-loss rates agreed with values from earlier studies. We conclude that the
proximity of sources to large streams and rivers is an important determinant of
nitrogen delivery to the estuary in the Mississippi basin, and possibly also in
other large river basins.

DOI: 10.1038/35001562 
PMID: 10693802 


871. Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):756-8.

Temperature trends over the past five centuries reconstructed from borehole
temperatures

Huang S(1), Pollack HN, Shen PY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geological Sciences, The University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
48109-1063, USA.

For an accurate assessment of the relative roles of natural variability and
anthropogenic influence in the Earth's climate, reconstructions of past
temperatures from the pre-industrial as well as the industrial period are
essential. But instrumental records are typically available for no more than the 
past 150 years. Therefore reconstructions of pre-industrial climate rely
principally on traditional climate proxy records, each with particular strengths 
and limitations in representing climatic variability. Subsurface temperatures
comprise an independent archive of past surface temperature changes that is
complementary to both the instrumental record and the climate proxies. Here we
use present-day temperatures in 616 boreholes from all continents except
Antarctica to reconstruct century-long trends in temperatures over the past 500
years at global, hemispheric and continental scales. The results confirm the
unusual warming of the twentieth century revealed by the instrumental record, but
suggest that the cumulative change over the past five centuries amounts to about 
1 K, exceeding recent estimates from conventional climate proxies. The strength
of temperature reconstructions from boreholes lies in the detection of long-term 
trends, complementary to conventional climate proxies, but to obtain a complete
picture of past warming, the differences between the approaches need to be
investigated in detail.

DOI: 10.1038/35001556 
PMID: 10693801 


872. Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):753-6.

Explanation for fracture spacing in layered materials

Bai T(1), Pollard DD, Gao H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geological and Environmental Sciences, Stanford University,
California 94305-2115, USA. bai@pangea.stanford.edu

The spacing of opening-mode fractures in layered materials--such as certain
sedimentary rocks and laminated engineering materials--is often proportional to
the thickness of the fractured layer. Experimental studies of this phenomenon
show that the spacing initially decreases as extensional strain increases in the 
direction perpendicular to the fractures. But at a certain ratio of spacing to
layer thickness, no new fractures form and the additional strain is accommodated 
by further opening of existing fractures: the spacing then simply scales with
layer thickness, which is called fracture saturation. This is in marked contrast 
to existing theories of fracture, such as the stress-transfer theory, which
predict that spacing should decrease with increasing strain ad infinitum.
Recently, two of us (T.B. and D.D.P.) have used a combination of numerical
simulations and laboratory experiments to show that, with increasing applied
stress, the normal stress acting between such fractures undergoes a transition
from tensile to compressive, suggesting a cause for fracture saturation. Here we 
investigate the full stress distribution between such fractures, from which we
derive an intuitive physical model of the process of fracture saturation. Such a 
model should find wide applicability, from geosciences to engineering.

DOI: 10.1038/35001550 
PMID: 10693800 


873. Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):750-3.

High-efficiency fluorescent organic light-emitting devices using a phosphorescent
sensitizer

Baldo MA(1), Thompson ME, Forrest SR.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Photonics and Optoelectronic Materials, Department of Electrical
Engineering and the Princeton Materials Institute, Princeton University, New
Jersey 08544, USA.

To obtain the maximum luminous efficiency from an organic material, it is
necessary to harness both the spin-symmetric and anti-symmetric molecular
excitations (bound electron-hole pairs, or excitons) that result from electrical 
pumping. This is possible if the material is phosphorescent, and high
efficiencies have been observed in phosphorescent organic light-emitting devices.
However, phosphorescence in organic molecules is rare at room temperature. The
alternative radiative process of fluorescence is more common, but it is
approximately 75% less efficient, due to the requirement of spin-symmetry
conservation. Here, we demonstrate that this deficiency can be overcome by using 
a phosphorescent sensitizer to excite a fluorescent dye. The mechanism for
energetic coupling between phosphorescent and fluorescent molecular species is a 
long-range, non-radiative energy transfer: the internal efficiency of
fluorescence can be as high as 100%. As an example, we use this approach to
nearly quadruple the efficiency of a fluorescent red organic light-emitting
device.

DOI: 10.1038/35001541 
PMID: 10693799 


874. Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):746-50.

Imaging the effects of individual zinc impurity atoms on superconductivity in
Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+delta

Pan SH(1), Hudson EW, Lang KM, Eisaki H, Uchida S, Davis JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of California, Berkeley 94720, USA.

Although the crystal structures of the copper oxide high-temperature
superconductors are complex and diverse, they all contain some crystal planes
consisting of only copper and oxygen atoms in a square lattice: superconductivity
is believed to originate from strongly interacting electrons in these CuO2
planes. Substituting a single impurity atom for a copper atom strongly perturbs
the surrounding electronic environment and can therefore be used to probe
high-temperature superconductivity at the atomic scale. This has provided the
motivation for several experimental and theoretical studies. Scanning tunnelling 
microscopy (STM) is an ideal technique for the study of such effects at the
atomic scale, as it has been used very successfully to probe individual impurity 
atoms in several other systems. Here we use STM to investigate the effects of
individual zinc impurity atoms in the high-temperature superconductor
Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+delta. We find intense quasiparticle scattering resonances at the
Zn sites, coincident with strong suppression of superconductivity within
approximately 15 A of the scattering sites. Imaging of the spatial dependence of 
the quasiparticle density of states in the vicinity of the impurity atoms reveals
the long-sought four-fold symmetric quasiparticle 'cloud' aligned with the nodes 
of the d-wave superconducting gap which is believed to characterize
superconductivity in these materials.

DOI: 10.1038/35001534 
PMID: 10693798 


875. Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):743-6.

Preparing pure photon number states of the radiation field

Varcoe BT(1), Brattke S, Weidinger M, Walther H.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Quantum Optics, Garching, Germany.

The quantum mechanical description of a radiation field is based on states that
are characterized by the number of photons in a particular mode; the most basic
quantum states are those with fixed photon number, usually referred to as number 
(or Fock) states. Although Fock states of vibrational motion can be observed
readily in ion traps, number states of the radiation field are very fragile and
difficult to produce and maintain. Single photons in multi-mode fields have been 
generated using the technique of photon pairs. But in order to generate these
states in a cavity, the mode in question must have minimal losses; moreover,
additional sources of photon number fluctuations, such as the thermal field, must
be eliminated. Here we observe the build-up of number states in a high-Q cavity, 
by investigating the interaction dynamics of a probe atom with the field. We
employ a dynamical method of number state preparation that involves state
reduction of highly excited atoms in a cavity, with a photon lifetime as high as 
0.2 seconds. (This set-up is usually known as the one-atom maser or
'micromaser'.) Pure states containing up to two photons are measured
unambiguously.

DOI: 10.1038/35001526 
PMID: 10693797 


876. Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):741-3.

Origin of the Moon's orbital inclination from resonant disk interactions

Ward WR(1), Canup RM.

Author information: 
(1)Southwest Research Institute, Boulder, Colorado 80302, USA.
ward@boulder.swri.edu

The Moon is generally believed to have formed from the debris disk created by a
large body colliding with the early Earth. Recent models of this process predict 
that the orbit of the newly formed Moon should be in, or very near, the Earth's
equatorial plane. This prediction, however, is at odds with the known history of 
the lunar orbit: the orbit is currently expanding, but can be traced back in time
to reveal that, when the Moon formed, its orbital inclination relative to the
Earth's equator was I approximately = 10 degrees. The cause of this initial
inclination has been a mystery for over 30 years, as most dynamical processes
(such as those that act to flatten Saturn's rings) will tend to decrease orbital 
inclinations. Here we show that the Moon's substantial orbital inclination is
probably a natural result of its formation from an impact-generated disk. The
mechanism involves a gravitational resonance between the Moon and accretion-disk 
material, which can increase orbital inclinations up to approximately 15 degrees.

DOI: 10.1038/35001516 
PMID: 10693796 


877. Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):734-40.

Genetic ablation reveals that the roof plate is essential for dorsal interneuron 
specification.

Lee KJ(1), Dietrich P, Jessell TM.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular
Biophysics, Centre for Neurobiology and Behavior, Columbia University, New York, 
New York 10032, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):720-1.

During neural development in vertebrates, a spatially ordered array of neurons is
generated in response to inductive signals derived from localized organizing
centres. One organizing centre that has been proposed to have a role in the
control of neural patterning is the roof plate. To define the contribution of
signals derived from the roof plate to the specification of neuronal cell types
in the dorsal neural tube, we devised a genetic strategy to ablate the roof plate
selectively in mouse embryos. Embryos without a roof plate lack all the
interneuron subtypes that are normally generated in the dorsal third of the
neural tube. Using a genetically based lineage analysis and in vitro assays, we
show that the loss of these neurons results from the elimination of
non-autonomous signals provided by the roof plate. These results reveal that the 
roof plate is essential for specifying multiple classes of neurons in the
mammalian central nervous system.

DOI: 10.1038/35001507 
PMID: 10693795  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):727-33.

Supernova explosions in the Universe.

Burrows A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy, The University of Arizona, Tucson 85721, USA.
aburrows@as.arizona.edu

During the lifetime of our Milky Way galaxy, there have been something like 100
million supernova explosions, which have enriched the Galaxy with the oxygen we
breathe, the iron in our cars, the calcium in our bones and the silicon in the
rocks beneath our feet. These exploding stars also influence the birth of new
stars and are the source of the energetic cosmic rays that irradiate us on the
Earth. The prodigious amount of energy (approximately 10(51), or approximately
2.5 x 10(28) megatonnes of TNT equivalent) and momentum associated with each
supernova may even have helped to shape galaxies as they formed in the early
Universe. Supernovae are now being used to measure the geometry of the Universe, 
and have recently been implicated in the decades-old mystery of the origin of the
gamma-ray bursts. Together with major conceptual advances in our theoretical
understanding of supernovae, these developments have made supernovae the centre
of attention in astrophysics.

DOI: 10.1038/35001501 
PMID: 10693794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):680-4.

A tripeptide 'anticodon' deciphers stop codons in messenger RNA.

Ito K(1), Uno M, Nakamura Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Tumor Biology, Institute of Medical Science, University of
Tokyo, Japan.

The two translational release factors of prokaryotes, RF1 and RF2, catalyse the
termination of polypeptide synthesis at UAG/UAA and UGA/UAA stop codons,
respectively. However, how these polypeptide release factors read both
non-identical and identical stop codons is puzzling. Here we describe the basis
of this recognition. Swaps of each of the conserved domains between RF1 and RF2
in an RF1-RF2 hybrid led to the identification of a domain that could switch
recognition specificity. A genetic selection among clones encoding random
variants of this domain showed that the tripeptides Pro-Ala-Thr and Ser-Pro-Phe
determine release-factor specificity in vivo in RF1 and RF2, respectively. An in 
vitro release study of tripeptide variants indicated that the first and third
amino acids independently discriminate the second and third purine bases,
respectively. Analysis with stop codons containing base analogues indicated that 
the C2 amino group of purine may be the primary target of discrimination of G
from A. These findings show that the discriminator tripeptide of bacterial
release factors is functionally equivalent to that of the anticodon of transfer
RNA, irrespective of the difference between protein and RNA.

DOI: 10.1038/35001115 
PMID: 10688208  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):676-80.

Localization of apical epithelial determinants by the basolateral PDZ protein
Scribble.

Bilder D(1), Perrimon N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115,
USA. bilder@rascal.med.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):611-2.

The generation of membrane domains with distinct protein constituents is a
hallmark of cell polarization. In epithelia, segregation of membrane proteins
into apical and basolateral compartments is critical for cell morphology, tissue 
physiology and cell signalling. Drosophila proteins that confer apical membrane
identity have been found, but the mechanisms that restrict these determinants to 
the apical cell surface are unknown. Here we show that a laterally localized
protein is required for the apical confinement of polarity determinants.
Mutations in Drosophila scribble (scrib), which encodes a multi-PDZ (PSD-95,
Discs-large and ZO-1) and leucine-rich-repeat protein, cause aberrant cell shapes
and loss of the monolayer organization of embryonic epithelia. Scrib is localized
to the epithelial septate junction, the analogue of the vertebrate tight
junction, at the boundary of the apical and basolateral cell surfaces. Loss of
scrib function results in the misdistribution of apical proteins and adherens
junctions to the basolateral cell surface, but basolateral protein localization
remains intact. These phenotypes can be accounted for by mislocalization of the
apical determinant Crumbs. Our results show that the lateral domain of epithelia,
particularly the septate junction, functions in restricting apical membrane
identity and correctly placing adherens junctions.

DOI: 10.1038/35001108 
PMID: 10688207  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):672-6.

How self-tolerance and the immunosuppressive drug FK506 prevent B-cell
mitogenesis.

Glynne R(1), Akkaraju S, Healy JI, Rayner J, Goodnow CC, Mack DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Beckman Center, Stanford
University, California 94305, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature 2000 Sep 21;407(6802):413.

Therapy for transplant rejection, autoimmune disease and allergy must target
mature lymphocytes that have escaped censoring during their development. FK506
and cyclosporin are immunosuppressants which block three antigen-receptor
signalling pathways (NFAT, NFkappaB and JNK), through inhibition of calcineurin, 
and inhibit mature lymphocyte proliferation to antigen. Neither drug induces
long-lived tolerance in vivo, however, necessitating chronic use with adverse
side effects. Physiological mechanisms of peripheral tolerance to self-antigens
provide an opportunity to emulate these processes pharmacologically. Here we use 
gene-expression arrays to provide a molecular explanation for the loss of
mitogenic response in peripheral B-cell anergy, one aspect of immunological
tolerance. Self-antigen induces a set of genes that includes negative regulators 
of signalling and transcription but not genes that promote proliferation. FK506
interferes with calcium-dependent components of the tolerance response and blocks
an unexpectedly small fraction of the activation response. Many genes that were
not previously connected to self-tolerance are revealed, and our findings provide
a molecular fingerprint for the development of improved immunosuppressants that
prevent lymphocyte activation without blocking peripheral tolerance.

DOI: 10.1038/35001102 
PMID: 10688206  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):669-72.

Shiga-like toxins are neutralized by tailored multivalent carbohydrate ligands.

Kitov PI(1), Sadowska JM, Mulvey G, Armstrong GD, Ling H, Pannu NS, Read RJ,
Bundle DR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada.

The diseases caused by Shiga and cholera toxins account for the loss of millions 
of lives each year. Both belong to the clinically significant subset of bacterial
AB5 toxins consisting of an enzymatically active A subunit that gains entry to
susceptible mammalian cells after oligosaccharide recognition by the B5
homopentamer. Therapies might target the obligatory oligosaccharide-toxin
recognition event, but the low intrinsic affinity of carbohydrate-protein
interactions hampers the development of low-molecular-weight inhibitors. The
toxins circumvent low affinity by binding simultaneously to five or more
cell-surface carbohydrates. Here we demonstrate the use of the crystal structure 
of the B5 subunit of Escherichia coli O157:H7 Shiga-like toxin I (SLT-I) in
complex with an analogue of its carbohydrate receptor to design an oligovalent,
water-soluble carbohydrate ligand (named STARFISH), with subnanomolar inhibitory 
activity. The in vitro inhibitory activity is 1-10-million-fold higher than that 
of univalent ligands and is by far the highest molar activity of any inhibitor
yet reported for Shiga-like toxins I and II. Crystallography of the
STARFISH/Shiga-like toxin I complex explains this activity. Two trisaccharide
receptors at the tips of each of five spacer arms simultaneously engage all five 
B subunits of two toxin molecules.

DOI: 10.1038/35001095 
PMID: 10688205  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):665-8.

The genome sequence of the food-borne pathogen Campylobacter jejuni reveals
hypervariable sequences.

Parkhill J(1), Wren BW, Mungall K, Ketley JM, Churcher C, Basham D, Chillingworth
T, Davies RM, Feltwell T, Holroyd S, Jagels K, Karlyshev AV, Moule S, Pallen MJ, 
Penn CW, Quail MA, Rajandream MA, Rutherford KM, van Vliet AH, Whitehead S,
Barrell BG.

Author information: 
(1)The Sanger Centre, The Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, UK.

Campylobacter jejuni, from the delta-epsilon group of proteobacteria, is a
microaerophilic, Gram-negative, flagellate, spiral bacterium-properties it shares
with the related gastric pathogen Helicobacter pylori. It is the leading cause of
bacterial food-borne diarrhoeal disease throughout the world. In addition,
infection with C. jejuni is the most frequent antecedent to a form of
neuromuscular paralysis known as Guillain-Barré syndrome. Here we report the
genome sequence of C. jejuni NCTC11168. C. jejuni has a circular chromosome of
1,641,481 base pairs (30.6% G+C) which is predicted to encode 1,654 proteins and 
54 stable RNA species. The genome is unusual in that there are virtually no
insertion sequences or phage-associated sequences and very few repeat sequences. 
One of the most striking findings in the genome was the presence of hypervariable
sequences. These short homopolymeric runs of nucleotides were commonly found in
genes encoding the biosynthesis or modification of surface structures, or in
closely linked genes of unknown function. The apparently high rate of variation
of these homopolymeric tracts may be important in the survival strategy of C.
jejuni.

DOI: 10.1038/35001088 
PMID: 10688204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):661-5.

Maintenance of functional equivalence during paralogous Hox gene evolution.

Greer JM(1), Puetz J, Thomas KR, Capecchi MR.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt
Lake City 84112, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):607, 609-10.

Biological diversity is driven mainly by gene duplication followed by mutation
and selection. This divergence in either regulatory or protein-coding sequences
can result in quite different biological functions for even closely related
genes. This concept is exemplified by the mammalian Hox gene complex, a group of 
39 genes which are located on 4 linkage groups, dispersed on 4 chromosomes. The
evolution of this complex began with amplification in cis of a primordial Hox
gene to produce 13 members, followed by duplications in trans of much of the
entire unit. As a consequence, Hox genes that occupy the same relative position
along the 5' to 3' chromosomal coordinate (trans-paralogous genes) share more
similarity in sequence and expression pattern than do adjacent Hox genes on the
same chromosome. Studies in mice indicate that although individual family members
may have unique biological roles, they also share overlapping functions with
their paralogues. Here we show that the proteins encoded by the paralogous genes,
Hoxa3 and Hoxd3, can carry out identical biological functions, and that the
different roles attributed to these genes are the result of quantitative
modulations in gene expression.

DOI: 10.1038/35001077 
PMID: 10688203  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):658-61.

The organizer factors Chordin and Noggin are required for mouse forebrain
development.

Bachiller D(1), Klingensmith J, Kemp C, Belo JA, Anderson RM, May SR, McMahon JA,
McMahon AP, Harland RM, Rossant J, De Robertis EM.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Biological Chemistry,
University of California, Los Angeles 90095-1662, USA.

In mice, there is evidence suggesting that the development of head and trunk
structures is organized by distinctly separated cell populations. The head
organizer is located in the anterior visceral endoderm (AVE) and the trunk
organizer in the node and anterior primitive streak. In amphibians, Spemann's
organizer, which is homologous to the node, partially overlaps with anterior
endoderm cells expressing homologues of the AVE markers cerberus, Hex and Hesx1. 
For mice, this raises the question of whether the AVE and node are independent of
each other, as suggested by their anatomical separation, or functionally
interdependent as is the case in amphibians. Chordin and Noggin are secreted bone
morphogenetic protein (BMP) antagonists expressed in the mouse node, but not in
the AVE. Here we show that mice double-homozygous mutants that are for chordin
and noggin display severe defects in the development of the prosencephalon. The
results show that BMP antagonists in the node and its derivatives are required
for head development.

DOI: 10.1038/35001072 
PMID: 10688202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):655-7.

Altered brain response to verbal learning following sleep deprivation.

Drummond SP(1), Brown GG, Gillin JC, Stricker JL, Wong EC, Buxton RB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of California San Diego, 92093-0603, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):605-6.

The effects of sleep deprivation on the neural substrates of cognition are poorly
understood. Here we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to measure the
effects of 35 hours of sleep deprivation on cerebral activation during verbal
learning in normal young volunteers. On the basis of a previous hypothesis, we
predicted that the prefrontal cortex (PFC) would be less responsive to cognitive 
demands following sleep deprivation. Contrary to our expectations, however, the
PFC was more responsive after one night of sleep deprivation than after normal
sleep. Increased subjective sleepiness in sleep-deprived subjects correlated
significantly with activation of the PFC. The temporal lobe was activated after
normal sleep but not after sleep deprivation; in contrast, the parietal lobes
were not activated after normal sleep but were activated after sleep deprivation.
Although sleep deprivation significantly impaired free recall compared with the
rested state, better free recall in sleep-deprived subjects was associated with
greater parietal lobe activation. These findings show that there are dynamic,
compensatory changes in cerebral activation during verbal learning after sleep
deprivation and implicate the PFC and parietal lobes in this compensation.

DOI: 10.1038/35001068 
PMID: 10688201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):652-5.

Pattern recognition and active vision in chickens.

Dawkins MS(1), Woodington A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, UK. marian.dawkins@zoo.ox.ac.uk

Recognition of objects or environmental landmarks is problematic because
appearance can vary widely depending on illumination, viewing distance, angle of 
view and so on. Storing a separate image or 'template' for every possible view
requires vast numbers to be stored and scanned, has a high probability of
recognition error and appears not to be the solution adopted by primates.
However, some invertebrate template matching systems can achieve recognition by
'active vision' in which the animal's own behaviour is used to achieve a fit
between template and object, for example by repeatedly following a set path.
Recognition is thus limited to views from the set path but achieved with a
minimal number of templates. Here we report the first evidence of similar active 
vision in a bird, in the form of locomotion and individually distinct head
movements that give the eyes a similar series of views on different occasions.
The hens' ability to recognize objects is also found to decrease when their
normal paths are altered.

DOI: 10.1038/35001064 
PMID: 10688200  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):649-52.

Ancestral chloroplast genome in Mesostigma viride reveals an early branch of
green plant evolution.

Lemieux C(1), Otis C, Turmel M.

Author information: 
(1)Département de biochimie et de microbiologie, Université Laval, Québec,
Canada. clemieux@bcm.ulaval.ca

Sequence comparisons suggest that all living green plants belong to one of two
major phyla: Streptophyta (land plants and their closest green algal relatives,
the charophytes); and Chlorophyta (the rest of green algae). Because no green
algae are known that pre-date the Streptophyta/Chlorophyta split, and also
because the earliest diverging green algae show considerable morphological
variation, the nature of the unicellular flagellate ancestor of the two green
plant phyla is unknown. Here we report that the flagellate Mesostigma viride
belongs to the earliest diverging green plant lineage discovered to date. We have
sequenced the entire chloroplast DNA (118,360 base pairs) of this green alga and 
have conducted phylogenetic analyses of sequences derived from this genome.
Mesostigma represents a lineage that emerged before the divergence of the
Streptophyta and Chlorophyta, a position that is supported by several features of
its chloroplast DNA. The structure and gene organization of this genome indicate 
that chloroplast DNA architecture has been extremely well conserved in the line
leading to land plants.

DOI: 10.1038/35001059 
PMID: 10688199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):646-9.

Stable-isotope probing as a tool in microbial ecology.

Radajewski S(1), Ineson P, Parekh NR, Murrell JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Warwick, Coventry,
Warwickshire, UK.

Microorganisms are responsible for driving the biogeochemical cycling of elements
on Earth. Despite their importance and vast diversity, the taxonomic identity of 
the microorganisms involved in any specific process has usually been confined to 
that small fraction of the microbiota that has been isolated and cultivated. The 
recent coupling of molecular biological methods with stable-isotope abundance in 
biomarkers has provided a cultivation-independent means of linking the identity
of bacteria with their function in the environment. Here we show that 13C-DNA,
produced during the growth of metabolically distinct microbial groups on a
13C-enriched carbon source, can be resolved from 12C-DNA by density-gradient
centrifugation. DNA isolated from the target group of microorganisms can be
characterized taxonomically and functionally by gene probing and sequence
analysis. Application of this technique to investigate methanol-utilizing
microorganisms in soil demonstrated the involvement of members of two
phylogenetically distinct groups of eubacteria; the alpha-proteobacterial and
Acidobacterium lineages. Stable-isotope probing thus offers a powerful new
technique for identifying microorganisms that are actively involved in specific
metabolic processes under conditions which approach those occurring in situ.

DOI: 10.1038/35001054 
PMID: 10688198  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):643-6.

Water exchange between the subglacial Lake Vostok and the overlying ice sheet

Siegert MJ(1), Kwok R, Mayer C, Hubbard B.

Author information: 
(1)Bristol Glaciology Centre, School of Geographical Sciences, University of
Bristol, UK. m.j.siegert@bristol.ac.uk

It has now been known for several years that a 200-km-long lake, called Lake
Vostok, lies beneath the ice sheet on which sits Vostok Station in Antarctica.
The conditions at the base of the ice sheet above this subglacial lake can
provide information about the environment within the lake, including the
likelihood that it supports life. Here we present an analysis of the ice-sheet
structure from airborne 60-MHz radar studies, which indicates that distinct zones
of basal ice loss and accretion occur at the ice-water interface. Subglacial
melting and net ice loss occur in the north of the lake and across its
200-km-long western margin, whereas about 150 m of ice is gained by subglacial
freezing in the south. This indicates that significant quantities of water are
exchanged between the base of the ice sheet and the lake waters, which will
enrich the lake with gas hydrates, cause sediment deposition and encourage
circulation of the lake water.

DOI: 10.1038/35001049 
PMID: 10688197 


891. Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):641-3.

Air entrapment in coatings by way of a tip-streaming meniscus

Simpkins PG(1), Kuck VJ.

Author information: 
(1)Bell Laboratories, Lucent Technologies, Murray Hill, New Jersey 07974, USA.
pgs@bell-labs.com

Entrapment of small air bubbles is a problem for continuous liquid-film coatings 
processes. The coating of any surface requires that the surrounding air in
contact with it be displaced by an advancing liquid interface. Studies of dynamic
wetting suggest that if the interface motion is too rapid, the air is not
completely removed and it becomes entrained in the coating material. This
process, which can lead to undesirable flaws in the form of bubbles, blemishes or
voids, limits the speed at which the substrate can be moved in the production of 
uniform precision coatings. However, the entrapment process is not understood in 
detail. Here we report an experimental investigation of air entrapment in
high-speed coating operations. Tip streaming--a phenomenon well known in
emulsification technology, involving the ejection of a fine filament from the
cusped interface between two immiscible fluids--is shown to be the precursor of
air entrainment. We demonstrate that tip-streaming air filaments emanating from
the contact zone of a dynamic liquid interface give rise to minute (approximately
10 microm) bubbles.

DOI: 10.1038/35001043 
PMID: 10688196 


892. Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):638-40.

Non-destructive determination of local strain with 100-nanometre spatial
resolution

Di Fonzo S(1), Jark W, Lagomarsino S, Giannini C, De Caro L, Cedola A, Muller M.

Author information: 
(1)SINCROTRONE TRIESTE, Basovizza-Trieste, Italy. difonzo@elettra.trieste.it

Structure sizes of approximately 180 nm are now standard in microelectronics, and
state-of-the-art fabrication techniques can reduce these to just a few tens of
nanometres. But at these length scales, the strain induced at interfaces can
locally distort the crystal lattice, which may in turn affect device performance 
in an unpredictable way. A means of non-destructively characterizing such strain 
fields with high spatial resolution and sensitivity is therefore highly
desirable. One approach is to use Raman spectroscopy, but this is limited by the 
intrinsic approximately 0.5-microm resolution limit of visible light probes.
Techniques based on electron-beam diffraction can achieve the desired
nanometre-scale resolution. But either they require complex sample preparation
procedures (which may alter the original strain field) or they are sensitive to
distortional (but not dilational) strain within only the top few tens of
nanometres of the sample surface. X-rays, on the other hand, have a much greater 
penetration depth, but have not hitherto achieved strain analysis with
sub-micrometre resolution. Here we describe a magnifying diffraction imaging
procedure for X-rays which achieves a spatial resolution of 100nm in one
dimension and a sensitivity of 10(-4) for relative lattice variations. We
demonstrate the suitability of this procedure for strain analysis by measuring
the strain depth profiles beneath oxidized lines on silicon crystals.

DOI: 10.1038/35001035 
PMID: 10688195 


893. Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):635-8.

Direct measurement of electrical transport through DNA molecules.

Porath D(1), Bezryadin A, de Vries S, Dekker C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Sciences, Delft University of Technology, The
Netherlands.

Attempts to infer DNA electron transfer from fluorescence quenching measurements 
on DNA strands doped with donor and acceptor molecules have spurred intense
debate over the question of whether or not this important biomolecule is able to 
conduct electrical charges. More recently, first electrical transport
measurements on micrometre-long DNA 'ropes', and also on large numbers of DNA
molecules in films, have indicated that DNA behaves as a good linear conductor.
Here we present measurements of electrical transport through individual
10.4-nm-long, double-stranded poly(G)-poly(C) DNA molecules connected to two
metal nanoelectrodes, that indicate, by contrast, large-bandgap semiconducting
behaviour. We obtain nonlinear current-voltage curves that exhibit a voltage gap 
at low applied bias. This is observed in air as well as in vacuum down to
cryogenic temperatures. The voltage dependence of the differential conductance
exhibits a peak structure, which is suggestive of the charge carrier transport
being mediated by the molecular energy bands of DNA.

DOI: 10.1038/35001029 
PMID: 10688194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):632-5.

Structure and bandgap closure in dense hydrogen

Johnson KA(1), Ashcroft NW.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Atomic and Solid State Physics and Cornell Center for Materials 
Research, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853-2501, USA.

The possibility that steadily compressed hydrogen might undergo a transition from
a proton-paired insulator to a monatomic metal was first suggested in 1935. But
experimental realization of metallic hydrogen in solid form has remained elusive,
despite studies at pressures as high as 342 GPa. The pairing structure is known
to be robust (from the persistence of its associated vibron mode), leading to the
suggestion of an alternative route to the metallic state, involving a
band-overlap transition in which the pairing is preserved. Here we report density
functional calculations within the local density approximation that predict a
range of densities for hydrogen where a paired or molecular metallic state may be
energetically preferred. The transition to this metallic state is naturally
associated with the closing of an overall bandgap; but the pressures required to 
effect the transition are shown to change significantly when the gaps are
corrected by approximate inclusion of many-electron effects. The implication is
that a complete resolution of the structural and phase problem in dense hydrogen 
may require methods beyond the local density approximation.

DOI: 10.1038/35001024 
PMID: 10688193 


895. Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):630-2.

Moist convection as an energy source for the large-scale motions in Jupiter's
atmosphere. Galileo Imaging Team

Ingersoll AP(1), Gierasch PJ, Banfield D, Vasavada AR.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Geological and Planetary Sciences, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena 91125, USA. api@gps.caltech.edu

Jupiter's dominant large-scale weather patterns (dimensions approximately 10,000 
km) are zonal jets and long-lived ovals. The jets have been flowing east and west
at constant speeds of up to 180 m s(-1) for over 100 years. These jets receive
energy from small-scale eddies, which pump eastward momentum into the eastward
jets and westward momentum into the westward jets. This momentum transfer was
predicted by numerical models before it was observed on Jupiter. The large ovals 
roll between the jets in an anticyclonic direction-clockwise in the northern
hemisphere and counterclockwise in the southern hemisphere--where they regularly 
assimilate small anticyclonic eddies. But from where the eddies receive their
energy has been an open question. Here we argue that the eddies, which ultimately
drive both the jets and the ovals, receive their energy from moist convection.
This hypothesis is consistent with observations of jovian lightning, which is an 
indicator of moist convection. It also explains the anticyclonic rotation and
poleward drift of the eddies, and suggests patterns of upwelling and downwelling 
that resemble the patterns of large-scale axisymmetric overturning in the Earth's
atmosphere.

DOI: 10.1038/35001021 
PMID: 10688192 


896. Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):628-30.

Observation of moist convection in Jupiter's atmosphere. Galileo Imaging Team

Gierasch PJ(1), Ingersoll AP, Banfield D, Ewald SP, Helfenstein P, Simon-Miller
A, Vasavada A, Breneman HH, Senske DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA.
pjg10@cornell.edu

The energy source driving Jupiter's active meteorology is not understood. There
are two main candidates: a poorly understood internal heat source and sunlight.
Here we report observations of an active storm system possessing both lightning
and condensation of water. The storm has a vertical extent of at least 50 km and 
a length of about 4,000 km. Previous observations of lightning on Jupiter have
revealed both its frequency of occurrence and its spatial distribution, but they 
did not permit analysis of the detailed cloud structure and its dynamics. The
present observations reveal the storm (on the day side of the planet) at the same
location and within just a few hours of a lightning detection (on the night
side). We estimate that the total vertical transport of heat by storms like the
one observed here is of the same order as the planet's internal heat source. We
therefore conclude that moist convection-similar to large clusters of
thunderstorm cells on the Earth-is a dominant factor in converting heat flow into
kinetic energy in the jovian atmosphere.

DOI: 10.1038/35001017 
PMID: 10688191 


897. Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):623-7.

A comprehensive analysis of protein-protein interactions in Saccharomyces
cerevisiae.

Uetz P(1), Giot L, Cagney G, Mansfield TA, Judson RS, Knight JR, Lockshon D,
Narayan V, Srinivasan M, Pochart P, Qureshi-Emili A, Li Y, Godwin B, Conover D,
Kalbfleisch T, Vijayadamodar G, Yang M, Johnston M, Fields S, Rothberg JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Washington, Seattle 98195-7360, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):601-3.

Two large-scale yeast two-hybrid screens were undertaken to identify
protein-protein interactions between full-length open reading frames predicted
from the Saccharomyces cerevisiae genome sequence. In one approach, we
constructed a protein array of about 6,000 yeast transformants, with each
transformant expressing one of the open reading frames as a fusion to an
activation domain. This array was screened by a simple and automated procedure
for 192 yeast proteins, with positive responses identified by their positions in 
the array. In a second approach, we pooled cells expressing one of about 6,000
activation domain fusions to generate a library. We used a high-throughput
screening procedure to screen nearly all of the 6,000 predicted yeast proteins,
expressed as Gal4 DNA-binding domain fusion proteins, against the library, and
characterized positives by sequence analysis. These approaches resulted in the
detection of 957 putative interactions involving 1,004 S. cerevisiae proteins.
These data reveal interactions that place functionally unclassified proteins in a
biological context, interactions between proteins involved in the same biological
function, and interactions that link biological functions together into larger
cellular processes. The results of these screens are shown here.

DOI: 10.1038/35001009 
PMID: 10688190  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):617-22.

Directed evolution of new catalytic activity using the alpha/beta-barrel
scaffold.

Altamirano MM(1), Blackburn JM, Aguayo C, Fersht AR.

Author information: 
(1)Cambridge Centre for Protein Engineering, and Cambridge University Chemical
Laboratory, MRC Centre, UK.

Retraction in
    Altamirano MM, Blackburn JM, Aguayo C, Fersht AR. Nature. 2002 May
23;417(6887):468.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Feb 10;403(6770):606-7.

In biological systems, enzymes catalyse the efficient synthesis of complex
molecules under benign conditions, but widespread industrial use of these
biocatalysts depends crucially on the development of new enzymes with useful
catalytic functions. The evolution of enzymes in biological systems often
involves the acquisition of new catalytic or binding properties by an existing
protein scaffold. Here we mimic this strategy using the most common fold in
enzymes, the alpha/beta-barrel, as the scaffold. By combining an existing binding
site for structural elements of phosphoribosylanthranilate with a catalytic
template required for isomerase activity, we are able to evolve
phosphoribosylanthranilate isomerase activity from the scaffold of
indole-3-glycerol-phosphate synthase. We find that targeting the catalytic
template for in vitro mutagenesis and recombination, followed by in vivo
selection, results in a new phosphoribosylanthranilate isomerase that has
catalytic properties similar to those of the natural enzyme, with an even higher 
specificity constant. Our demonstration of divergent evolution and the widespread
occurrence of the alpha/beta-barrel suggest that this scaffold may be a fold of
choice for the directed evolution of new biocatalysts.

DOI: 10.1038/35001001 
PMID: 10688189  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):571-5.

Alternative modular polyketide synthase expression controls macrolactone
structure.

Xue Y(1), Sherman DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Biological Process Technology Institute,
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis 55455, USA.

Modular polyketide synthases are giant multifunctional enzymes that catalyse the 
condensation of small carboxylic acids such as acetate and propionate into
structurally diverse polyketides that possess a spectrum of biological
activities. In a modular polyketide synthase, an enzymatic domain catalyses a
specific reaction, and three to six enzymatic domains involved in a
condensation-processing cycle are organized into a module. A fundamental aspect
of a modular polyketide synthase is that its module arrangement linearly
specifies the structure of its polyketide product. Here we report a natural
example in which alternative expression of the pikromycin polyketide synthase
results in the generation of two macrolactone structures. Expression of the
full-length modular polyketide synthase PikAIV in Streptomyces venezuelae
generates the 14-membered ring macrolactone narbonolide, whereas expression of
the amino-terminal truncated form of PikAIV leads to 'skipping' of the final
condensation cycle in polyketide biosynthesis to generate the 12-membered ring
macrolactone 10-deoxymethynolide. Our findings provide insight into the structure
and function of modular polyketide synthases, as well as a new set of tools to
generate structural diversity in polyketide natural products.

DOI: 10.1038/35000624 
PMID: 10676969  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):567-71.

Structure of human guanylate-binding protein 1 representing a unique class of
GTP-binding proteins.

Prakash B(1), Praefcke GJ, Renault L, Wittinghofer A, Herrmann C.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Molekulare Physiologie, Dortmund, Germany.

Interferon-gamma is an immunomodulatory substance that induces the expression of 
many genes to orchestrate a cellular response and establish the antiviral state
of the cell. Among the most abundant antiviral proteins induced by
interferon-gamma are guanylate-binding proteins such as GBP1 and GBP2. These are 
large GTP-binding proteins of relative molecular mass 67,000 with a high-turnover
GTPase activity and an antiviral effect. Here we have determined the crystal
structure of full-length human GBP1 to 1.8 A resolution. The amino-terminal 278
residues constitute a modified G domain with a number of insertions compared to
the canonical Ras structure, and the carboxy-terminal part is an extended helical
domain with unique features. From the structure and biochemical experiments
reported here, GBP1 appears to belong to the group of large GTP-binding proteins 
that includes Mx and dynamin, the common property of which is the ability to
undergo oligomerization with a high concentration-dependent GTPase activity.

DOI: 10.1038/35000617 
PMID: 10676968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


901. Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):564-7.

Evidence for stabilizing selection in a eukaryotic enhancer element.

Ludwig MZ(1), Bergman C, Patel NH, Kreitman M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Chicago, Illinois 60637,
USA. mludwig@midway.uchicago.edu

Eukaryotic gene expression is mediated by compact cis-regulatory modules, or
enhancers, which are bound by specific sets of transcription factors. The
combinatorial interaction of these bound transcription factors determines time-
and tissue-specific gene activation or repression. The even-skipped stripe 2
element controls the expression of the second transverse stripe of even-skipped
messenger RNA in Drosophila melanogaster embryos, and is one of the best
characterized eukaryotic enhancers. Although even-skipped stripe 2 expression is 
strongly conserved in Drosophila, the stripe 2 element itself has undergone
considerable evolutionary change in its binding-site sequences and the spacing
between them. We have investigated this apparent contradiction, and here we show 
that two chimaeric enhancers, constructed by swapping the 5' and 3' halves of the
native stripe 2 elements of two species, no longer drive expression of a reporter
gene in the wildtype pattern. Sequence differences between species have
functional consequences, therefore, but they are masked by other co-evolved
differences. On the basis of these results, we present a model for the evolution 
of eukaryotic regulatory sequences.

DOI: 10.1038/35000615 
PMID: 10676967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):560-4.

Food and metabolic signalling defects in a Caenorhabditis elegans
serotonin-synthesis mutant.

Sze JY(1), Victor M, Loer C, Shi Y, Ruvkun G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard
Medical School, Boston 02114, USA.

The functions of serotonin have been assigned through serotonin-receptor-specific
drugs and mutants; however, because a constellation of receptors remains when a
single receptor subtype is inhibited, the coordinate responses to modulation of
serotonin levels may be missed. Here we report the analysis of behavioural and
neuroendocrine defects caused by a complete lack of serotonin signalling.
Analysis of the C. elegans genome sequence showed that there is a single
tryptophan hydroxylase gene (tph-1)-the key enzyme for serotonin biosynthesis.
Animals bearing a tph-1 deletion mutation do not synthesize serotonin but are
fully viable. The tph-1 mutant shows abnormalities in behaviour and metabolism
that are normally coupled with the sensation and ingestion of food: rates of
feeding and egg laying are decreased; large amounts of fat are stored;
reproductive lifespan is increased; and some animals arrest at the metabolically 
inactive dauer stage. This metabolic dysregulation is, in part, due to
downregulation of transforming growth factor-beta and insulin-like neuroendocrine
signals. The action of the C. elegans serotonergic system in metabolic control is
similar to mammalian serotonergic input to metabolism and obesity.

DOI: 10.1038/35000609 
PMID: 10676966  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):557-60.

Slowed recovery of rod photoresponse in mice lacking the GTPase accelerating
protein RGS9-1.

Chen CK(1), Burns ME, He W, Wensel TG, Baylor DA, Simon MI.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena 91125, USA.

Timely deactivation of the alpha-subunit of the rod G-protein transducin
(Galphat) is essential for the temporal resolution of rod vision. Regulators of
G-protein signalling (RGS) proteins accelerate hydrolysis of GTP by the
alpha-subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins in vitro. Several retinal RGS
proteins can act in vitro as GTPase accelerating proteins (GAP) for Galphat.
Recent reconstitution experiments indicate that one of these, RGS9-1, may account
for much of the Galphat GAP activity in rod outer segments (ROS). Here we report 
that ROS membranes from mice lacking RGS9-1 hydrolyse GTP more slowly than ROS
membranes from control mice. The Gbeta5-L protein that forms a complex with
RGS9-1 was absent from RGS9-/- retinas, although Gbeta5-L messenger RNA was still
present. The flash responses of RGS9-/- rods rose normally, but recovered much
more slowly than normal. We conclude that RGS9-1, probably in a complex with
Gbeta5-L, is essential for acceleration of hydrolysis of GTP by Galphat and for
normal recovery of the photoresponse.

DOI: 10.1038/35000601 
PMID: 10676965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):553-6.

Modulation of A-type potassium channels by a family of calcium sensors.

An WF(1), Bowlby MR, Betty M, Cao J, Ling HP, Mendoza G, Hinson JW, Mattsson KI, 
Strassle BW, Trimmer JS, Rhodes KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

In the brain and heart, rapidly inactivating (A-type) voltage-gated potassium
(Kv) currents operate at subthreshold membrane potentials to control the
excitability of neurons and cardiac myocytes. Although pore-forming
alpha-subunits of the Kv4, or Shal-related, channel family form A-type currents
in heterologous cells, these differ significantly from native A-type currents.
Here we describe three Kv channel-interacting proteins (KChIPs) that bind to the 
cytoplasmic amino termini of Kv4 alpha-subunits. We find that expression of KChIP
and Kv4 together reconstitutes several features of native A-type currents by
modulating the density, inactivation kinetics and rate of recovery from
inactivation of Kv4 channels in heterologous cells. All three KChIPs co-localize 
and co-immunoprecipitate with brain Kv4 alpha-subunits, and are thus integral
components of native Kv4 channel complexes. The KChIPs have four EF-hand-like
domains and bind calcium ions. As the activity and density of neuronal A-type
currents tightly control responses to excitatory synaptic inputs, these KChIPs
may regulate A-type currents, and hence neuronal excitability, in response to
changes in intracellular calcium.

DOI: 10.1038/35000592 
PMID: 10676964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):549-53.

A neuronal analogue of state-dependent learning.

Shulz DE(1), Sosnik R, Ego V, Haidarliu S, Ahissar E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, The Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot,
Israel. shulz@iaf.cnrs-gif.fr

State-dependent learning is a phenomenon in which the retrieval of newly acquired
information is possible only if the subject is in the same sensory context and
physiological state as during the encoding phase. In spite of extensive
behavioural and pharmacological characterization, no cellular counterpart of this
phenomenon has been reported. Here we describe a neuronal analogue of
state-dependent learning in which cortical neurons show an
acetylcholine-dependent expression of an acetylcholine-induced functional
plasticity. This was demonstrated on neurons of rat somatosensory 'barrel'
cortex, whose tunings to the temporal frequency of whisker deflections were
modified by cellular conditioning. Pairing whisker stimulation with acetylcholine
applied iontophoretically yielded selective lasting modification of responses,
the expression of which depended on the presence of exogenous acetylcholine.
Administration of acetylcholine during testing revealed frequency-specific
changes in response that were not expressed when tested without acetylcholine or 
when the muscarinic antagonist, atropine, was applied concomitantly. Our results 
suggest that both acquisition and recall can be controlled by the cortical
release of acetylcholine.

DOI: 10.1038/35000586 
PMID: 10676963  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):544-9.

Motor disorder in Huntington's disease begins as a dysfunction in error feedback 
control.

Smith MA(1), Brandt J, Shadmehr R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, Maryland 21205-2195, USA. msmith@bme.jhu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):495-6.

A steady progression of motor dysfunction takes place in Huntington's disease
(HD). The origin of this disturbance with relation to the motor control process
is not understood. Here we studied reaching movements in asymptomatic HD
gene-carriers (AGCs) and subjects with manifest HD. We found that movement
jerkiness, which characterizes the smoothness and efficiency of motion, was a
sensitive indicator of presymptomatic HD progression. A large fraction of AGCs
displayed elevated jerk even when more than seven years remained until predicted 
disease onset. Movement termination was disturbed much more than initiation and
was highly variable from trial to trial. Analysis of this variability revealed
that the sensitivity of end-movement jerk to subtle, self-generated
early-movement errors was greater in HD subjects than in controls. Additionally, 
we found that HD corrective responses to externally-generated force pulses were
greatly disturbed, indicating that HD subjects display aberrant responses to both
external and self-generated errors. Because feedback corrections are driven by
error and are delayed such that they predominantly affect movement termination,
these findings suggest that a dysfunction in error correction characterizes the
motor control deficit in early HD. This dysfunction may be observed years before 
clinical disease onset and grows worse as the disease progresses.

DOI: 10.1038/35000576 
PMCID: PMC2556233
PMID: 10676962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):540-4.

Myoglobin-like aerotaxis transducers in Archaea and Bacteria.

Hou S(1), Larsen RW, Boudko D, Riley CW, Karatan E, Zimmer M, Ordal GW, Alam M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Hawaii, Honolulu 96822, USA.

Haem-containing proteins such as haemoglobin and myoglobin play an essential role
in oxygen transport and storage. Comparison of the amino-acid sequences of
globins from Bacteria and Eukarya suggests that they share an early common
ancestor, even though the proteins perform different functions in these two
kingdoms. Until now, no members of the globin family have been found in the third
kingdom, Archaea. Recent studies of biological signalling in the Bacteria and
Eukarya have revealed a new class of haem-containing proteins that serve as
sensors. Until now, no haem-based sensor has been described in the Archaea. Here 
we report the first myoglobin-like, haem-containing protein in the Archaea, and
the first haem-based aerotactic transducer in the Bacteria (termed HemAT-Hs for
the archaeon Halobacterium salinarum, and HemAT-Bs for Bacillus subtilis). These 
proteins exhibit spectral properties similar to those of myoglobin and trigger
aerotactic responses.

DOI: 10.1038/35000570 
PMID: 10676961  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):537-40.

Ontogeny of orientation flight in the honeybee revealed by harmonic radar.

Capaldi EA(1), Smith AD, Osborne JL, Fahrbach SE, Farris SM, Reynolds DR, Edwards
AS, Martin A, Robinson GE, Poppy GM, Riley JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 61801,
USA. ecapaldi@life.uiuc.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):488-9.

Cognitive ethology focuses on the study of animals under natural conditions to
reveal ecologically adapted modes of learning. But biologists can more easily
study what an animal learns than how it learns. For example, honeybees take
repeated 'orientation' flights before becoming foragers at about three weeks of
age. These flights are a prerequisite for successful homing. Little is known
about these flights because orienting bees rapidly fly out of the range of human 
observation. Using harmonic radar, we show for the first time a striking ontogeny
to honeybee orientation flights. With increased experience, bees hold trip
duration constant but fly faster, so later trips cover a larger area than earlier
trips. In addition, each flight is typically restricted to a narrow sector around
the hive. Orientation flights provide honeybees with repeated opportunities to
view the hive and landscape features from different viewpoints, suggesting that
bees learn the local landscape in a progressive fashion. We also show that these 
changes in orientation flight are related to the number of previous flights taken
instead of chronological age, suggesting a learning process adapted to changes in
weather conditions, flower availability and the needs of bee colonies.

DOI: 10.1038/35000564 
PMID: 10676960  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):534-7.

Quality of the fossil record through time.

Benton MJ(1), Wills MA, Hitchin R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol, UK.
mike.benton@bris.ac.uk

Does the fossil record present a true picture of the history of life, or should
it be viewed with caution? Raup argued that plots of the diversification of life 
were an illustration of bias: the older the rocks, the less we know. The debate
was partially resolved by the observation that different data sets gave similar
patterns of rising diversity through time. Here we show that new assessment
methods, in which the order of fossils in the rocks (stratigraphy) is compared
with the order inherent in evolutionary trees (phylogeny), provide a more
convincing analytical tool: stratigraphy and phylogeny offer independent data on 
history. Assessments of congruence between stratigraphy and phylogeny for a
sample of 1,000 published phylogenies show no evidence of diminution of quality
backwards in time. Ancient rocks clearly preserve less information, on average,
than more recent rocks. However, if scaled to the stratigraphic level of the
stage and the taxonomic level of the family, the past 540 million years of the
fossil record provide uniformly good documentation of the life of the past.

DOI: 10.1038/35000558 
PMID: 10676959  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):530-4.

Oxygen-isotope evidence for recycled crust in the sources of mid-ocean-ridge
basalts

Eiler JM(1), Schiano P, Kitchen N, Stolper EM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Geological and Planetary Sciences, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena 91125, USA. eiler@gps.caltech.edu

Mid-ocean-ridge basalts (MORBs) are the most abundant terrestrial magmas and are 
believed to form by partial melting of a globally extensive reservoir of
ultramafic rocks in the upper mantle. MORBs vary in their abundances of
incompatible elements (that is, those that partition into silicate liquids during
partial melting) and in the isotopic ratios of several radiogenic isotope
systems. These variations define a spectrum between 'depleted' and 'enriched'
compositions, characterized by respectively low and high abundances of
incompatible elements. Compositional variations in the sources of MORBs could
reflect recycling of subducted crustal materials into the source reservoir, or
any of a number of processes of intramantle differentiations. Variations in
(18)O/(16)O (principally sensitive to the interaction of rocks with the Earth's
hydrosphere) offer a test of these alternatives. Here we show that (18)O/(16)O
ratios of MORBs are correlated with aspects of their incompatible-element
chemistry. These correlations are consistent with control of the oxygen-isotope
and incompatible-element geochemistry of MORBs by a component of recycled crust
that is variably distributed throughout their upper mantle sources.

DOI: 10.1038/35000553 
PMID: 10676958 


911. Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):527-30.

Rapid diffusive infiltration of sodium into partially molten peridotite

Lundstrom CC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geological Sciences, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island 
02912, USA. lundstro@uiuc.edu

Recent seismological, geochemical and experimental observations suggest that, as 
mantle peridotite melts, the resulting basaltic liquid forms an interconnected
network, culminating in the rapid ascent of the basalt relative to the
surrounding solid matrix. Mantle melting is therefore a polybaric process, with
melts produced over a range of pressures having differing chemical
characteristics. Modelling and peridotite-melting experiments designed to
simulate polybaric mantle melting generally assume that there is no interaction
between melts generated at greater pressures and the overlying solid mantle at
lower pressures. Beneath mid-ocean ridges, melts derived from greater depth are
probably channelized during ascent, so preventing direct re-equilibration with
shallow peridotite, as required by geochemical observations. I show here,
however, that sodium in ascending melts will quickly diffuse into the melt formed
within nearby peridotite at lower pressures. This process fundamentally changes
the manner by which the peridotite melts, and can account for both the creation
of silica-rich glass inclusions in mantle xenoliths and the anomalous melting
modes recorded by abyssal peridotites. Increased melting of lithosphere and
upwelling asthenosphere could result from this process without the need to invoke
higher mantle temperatures.

DOI: 10.1038/35000546 
PMID: 10676957 


912. Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):524-7.

Fractal stream chemistry and its implications for contaminant transport in
catchments

Kirchner JW(1), Feng X, Neal C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, University of California, Berkeley
94720-4767, USA. kirchner@seismo.berkeley.edu

The time it takes for rainfall to travel through a catchment and reach the stream
is a fundamental hydraulic parameter that controls the retention of soluble
contaminants and thus the downstream consequences of pollution episodes.
Catchments with short flushing times will deliver brief, intense contaminant
pulses to downstream waters, whereas catchments with longer flushing times will
deliver less intense but more sustained contaminant fluxes. Here we analyse
detailed time series of chloride, a natural tracer, in both rainfall and runoff
from headwater catchments at Plynlimon, Wales. We show that, although the
chloride concentrations in rainfall have a white noise spectrum, the chloride
concentrations in streamflow exhibit fractal 1/f scaling over three orders of
magnitude. The fractal fluctuations in tracer concentrations indicate that these 
catchments do not have characteristic flushing times. Instead, their travel times
follow an approximate power-law distribution implying that they will retain a
long chemical memory of past inputs. Contaminants will initially be flushed
rapidly, but then low-level contamination will be delivered to streams for a
surprisingly long time.

DOI: 10.1038/35000537 
PMID: 10676956 


913. Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):521-3.

Large-scale complementary integrated circuits based on organic transistors

Crone B(1), Dodabalapur A, Lin YY, Filas RW, Bao Z, LaDuca A, Sarpeshkar R, Katz 
HE, Li W.

Author information: 
(1)Bell Laboratories, Lucent Technologies, Murray Hill, New Jersey 07974, USA.

Thin-film transistors based on molecular and polymeric organic materials have
been proposed for a number of applications, such as displays and radio-frequency 
identification tags. The main factors motivating investigations of organic
transistors are their lower cost and simpler packaging, relative to conventional 
inorganic electronics, and their compatibility with flexible substrates. In most 
digital circuitry, minimal power dissipation and stability of performance against
transistor parameter variations are crucial. In silicon-based microelectronics,
these are achieved through the use of complementary logic-which incorporates both
p- and n-type transistors-and it is therefore reasonable to suppose that adoption
of such an approach with organic semiconductors will similarly result in reduced 
power dissipation, improved noise margins and greater operational stability.
Complementary inverters and ring oscillators have already been reported. Here we 
show that such an approach can realize much larger scales of integration (in the 
present case, up to 864 transistors per circuit) and operation speeds of
approximately 1 kHz in clocked sequential complementary circuits.

DOI: 10.1038/35000530 
PMID: 10676955 


914. Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):519-21.

Ball lightning caused by oxidation of nanoparticle networks from normal lightning
strikes on soil

Abrahamson J(1), Dinniss J.

Author information: 
(1)Chemical and Process Engineering Department, University of Canterbury,
Christchurch, New Zealand. j.abrahamson@cape.canterbury.ac.nz

Observations of ball lightning have been reported for centuries, but the origin
of this phenomenon remains an enigma. The 'average' ball lightning appears as a
sphere with a diameter of 300 mm, a lifetime of about 10 s, and a luminosity
similar to a 100-W lamp. It floats freely in the air, and ends either in an
explosion, or by simply fading from view. It almost invariably occurs during
stormy weather. Several energy sources have been proposed to explain the light,
but none of these models has succeeded in explaining all of the observed
characteristics. Here we report a model that potentially accounts for all of
those properties, and which has some experimental support. When normal lightning 
strikes soil, chemical energy is stored in nanoparticles of Si, SiO or SiC, which
are ejected into the air as a filamentary network. As the particles are slowly
oxidized in air, the stored energy is released as heat and light. We investigated
this basic process by exposing soil samples to a lightning-like discharge, which 
produced chain aggregates of nanoparticles: these particles oxidize at a rate
appropriate for explaining the lifetime of ball lightning.

DOI: 10.1038/35000525 
PMID: 10676954 


915. Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):515-9.

Experimental test of quantum nonlocality in three-photon
Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger entanglement

Pan JW(1), Bouwmeester D, Daniell M, Weinfurter H, Zeilinger A.

Author information: 
(1)Institut fur Experimentalphysik, Universitat Wien, Austria.

Bell's theorem states that certain statistical correlations predicted by quantum 
physics for measurements on two-particle systems cannot be understood within a
realistic picture based on local properties of each individual particle-even if
the two particles are separated by large distances. Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen 
first recognized the fundamental significance of these quantum correlations
(termed 'entanglement' by Schrodinger) and the two-particle quantum predictions
have found ever-increasing experimental support. A more striking conflict between
quantum mechanical and local realistic predictions (for perfect correlations) has
been discovered; but experimental verification has been difficult, as it requires
entanglement between at least three particles. Here we report experimental
confirmation of this conflict, using our recently developed method to observe
three-photon entanglement, or 'Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger' (GHZ) states. The
results of three specific experiments, involving measurements of polarization
correlations between three photons, lead to predictions for a fourth experiment; 
quantum physical predictions are mutually contradictory with expectations based
on local realism. We find the results of the fourth experiment to be in agreement
with the quantum prediction and in striking conflict with local realism.

DOI: 10.1038/35000514 
PMID: 10676953 


916. Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):512-5.

Quantum mirages formed by coherent projection of electronic structure

Manoharan HC(1), Lutz CP, Eigler DM.

Author information: 
(1)IBM Research Division, Almaden Research Center, San Jose, California 95120,
USA. hari@alumni.princeton.edu

Image projection relies on classical wave mechanics and the use of natural or
engineered structures such as lenses or resonant cavities. Well-known examples
include the bending of light to create mirages in the atmosphere, and the
focusing of sound by whispering galleries. However, the observation of analogous 
phenomena in condensed matter systems is a more recent development, facilitated
by advances in nanofabrication. Here we report the projection of the electronic
structure surrounding a magnetic Co atom to a remote location on the surface of a
Cu crystal; electron partial waves scattered from the real Co atom are coherently
refocused to form a spectral image or 'quantum mirage'. The focusing device is an
elliptical quantum corral, assembled on the Cu surface. The corral acts as a
quantum mechanical resonator, while the two-dimensional Cu surface-state
electrons form the projection medium. When placed on the surface, Co atoms
display a distinctive spectroscopic signature, known as the many-particle Kondo
resonance, which arises from their magnetic moment. By positioning a Co atom at
one focus of the ellipse, we detect a strong Kondo signature not only at the
atom, but also at the empty focus. This behaviour contrasts with the usual
spatially-decreasing response of an electron gas to a localized perturbation.

DOI: 10.1038/35000508 
PMID: 10676952 


917. Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):503-11.

Distinct types of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma identified by gene expression
profiling.

Alizadeh AA(1), Eisen MB, Davis RE, Ma C, Lossos IS, Rosenwald A, Boldrick JC,
Sabet H, Tran T, Yu X, Powell JI, Yang L, Marti GE, Moore T, Hudson J Jr, Lu L,
Lewis DB, Tibshirani R, Sherlock G, Chan WC, Greiner TC, Weisenburger DD,
Armitage JO, Warnke R, Levy R, Wilson W, Grever MR, Byrd JC, Botstein D, Brown
PO, Staudt LM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Stanford University School of Medicine, California
94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Feb 3;403(6769):491-2.
    Nature. 2000 Apr 27;404(6781):921.

Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), the most common subtype of non-Hodgkin's
lymphoma, is clinically heterogeneous: 40% of patients respond well to current
therapy and have prolonged survival, whereas the remainder succumb to the
disease. We proposed that this variability in natural history reflects
unrecognized molecular heterogeneity in the tumours. Using DNA microarrays, we
have conducted a systematic characterization of gene expression in B-cell
malignancies. Here we show that there is diversity in gene expression among the
tumours of DLBCL patients, apparently reflecting the variation in tumour
proliferation rate, host response and differentiation state of the tumour. We
identified two molecularly distinct forms of DLBCL which had gene expression
patterns indicative of different stages of B-cell differentiation. One type
expressed genes characteristic of germinal centre B cells ('germinal centre
B-like DLBCL'); the second type expressed genes normally induced during in vitro 
activation of peripheral blood B cells ('activated B-like DLBCL'). Patients with 
germinal centre B-like DLBCL had a significantly better overall survival than
those with activated B-like DLBCL. The molecular classification of tumours on the
basis of gene expression can thus identify previously undetected and clinically
significant subtypes of cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/35000501 
PMID: 10676951  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):456-60.

Design of single-layer beta-sheets without a hydrophobic core.

Koide S(1), Huang X, Link K, Koide A, Bu Z, Engelman DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of Rochester Medical
Center, New York 14642, USA. Shohei_Koide@urmc.rochester.edu

The hydrophobic effect is the main thermodynamic driving force in the folding of 
water-soluble proteins. Exclusion of nonpolar moieties from aqueous solvent
results in the formation of a hydrophobic core in a protein, which has been
generally considered essential for specifying and stabilizing the folded
structures of proteins. Outer surface protein A (OspA) from Borrelia burgdorferi 
contains a three-stranded beta-sheet segment which connects two globular domains.
Although this single-layer beta-sheet segment is exposed to solvent on both faces
and thus does not contain a hydrophobic core, the segment has a high
conformational stability. Here we report the engineering of OspA variants that
contain larger single-layer beta-sheets (comprising five and seven beta-strands) 
by duplicating a beta-hairpin unit within the beta-sheet. Nuclear magnetic
resonance and small-angle X-ray scattering analyses reveal that these extended
single-layer beta-sheets are formed as designed, and amide hydrogen-deuterium
exchange and chemical denaturation show that they are stable. Thus, interactions 
within the beta-hairpin unit and those between adjacent units, which do not
involve the formation of a hydrophobic core, are sufficient to specify and
stabilize the single-layer beta-sheet structure. Our results provide an expanded 
view of protein folding, misfolding and design.

DOI: 10.1038/35000255 
PMID: 10667801  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):451-6.

DNA-bound structures and mutants reveal abasic DNA binding by APE1 and DNA repair
coordination [corrected].

Mol CD(1), Izumi T, Mitra S, Tainer JA.

Author information: 
(1)Skaggs Institute for Chemical Biology, and the Department of Molecular
Biology, La Jolla, California 92037-1027, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature 2000 Mar 30;404(6777.

Non-coding apurinic/apyrimidinic (AP) sites in DNA are continually created in
cells both spontaneously and by damage-specific DNA glycosylases. The
biologically critical human base excision repair enzyme APE1 cleaves the DNA
sugar-phosphate backbone at a position 5' of AP sites to prime DNA repair
synthesis. Here we report three co-crystal structures of human APE1 bound to
abasic DNA which show that APE1 uses a rigid, pre-formed, positively charged
surface to kink the DNA helix and engulf the AP-DNA strand. APE1 inserts loops
into both the DNA major and minor grooves and binds a flipped-out AP site in a
pocket that excludes DNA bases and racemized beta-anomer AP sites. Both the APE1 
active-site geometry and a complex with cleaved AP-DNA and Mn2+ support a
testable structure-based catalytic mechanism. Alanine substitutions of the
residues that penetrate the DNA helix unexpectedly show that human APE1 is
structurally optimized to retain the cleaved DNA product. These structural and
mutational results show how APE1 probably displaces bound glycosylases and
retains the nicked DNA product, suggesting that APE1 acts in vivo to coordinate
the orderly transfer of unstable DNA damage intermediates between the excision
and synthesis steps of DNA repair.

DOI: 10.1038/35000249 
PMID: 10667800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):447-51.

The DExH protein NPH-II is a processive and directional motor for unwinding RNA.

Jankowsky E(1), Gross CH, Shuman S, Pyle AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, Columbia University, New 
York, New York 10032, USA.

All aspects of cellular RNA metabolism and processing involve DExH/D proteins,
which are a family of enzymes that unwind or manipulate RNA in an ATP-dependent
fashion. DExH/D proteins are also essential for the replication of many viruses, 
and therefore provide targets for the development of therapeutics. All DExH/D
proteins characterized to date hydrolyse nucleoside triphosphates and, in most
cases, this activity is stimulated by the addition of RNA or DNA. Several members
of the family unwind RNA duplexes in an NTP-dependent fashion in vitro; therefore
it has been proposed that DExH/D proteins couple NTP hydrolysis to RNA
conformational change in complex macromolecular assemblies. Despite the central
role of DExH/D proteins, their mechanism of RNA helicase activity remains
unknown. Here we show that the DExH protein NPH-II unwinds RNA duplexes in a
processive, unidirectional fashion with a step size of roughly one-half helix
turn. We show that there is a quantitative connection between ATP utilization and
helicase processivity, thereby providing direct evidence that DExH/D proteins can
function as molecular motors on RNA.

DOI: 10.1038/35000239 
PMID: 10667799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):444-7.

Torque-generating units of the flagellar motor of Escherichia coli have a high
duty ratio.

Ryu WS(1), Berry RM, Berg HC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Rotation of the bacterial flagellar motor is driven by an ensemble of
torque-generating units containing the proteins MotA and MotB. Here, by inducing 
expression of MotA in motA- cells under conditions of low viscous load, we show
that the limiting speed of the motor is independent of the number of units: at
vanishing load, one unit turns the motor as rapidly as many. This result
indicates that each unit may remain attached to the rotor for most of its
mechanochemical cycle, that is, that it has a high duty ratio. Thus, torque
generators behave more like kinesin, the protein that moves vesicles along
microtubules, than myosin, the protein that powers muscle. However, their
translation rates, stepping frequencies and power outputs are much higher, being 
greater than 30 microm s(-1), 12 kHz and 1.5 x 10(5) pN nm s(-1), respectively.

DOI: 10.1038/35000233 
PMID: 10667798  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):439-44.

Identification of the Nogo inhibitor of axon regeneration as a Reticulon protein.

GrandPré T(1), Nakamura F, Vartanian T, Strittmatter SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut, USA.

Adult mammalian axon regeneration is generally successful in the peripheral
nervous system (PNS) but is dismally poor in the central nervous system (CNS).
However, many classes of CNS axons can extend for long distances in peripheral
nerve grafts. A comparison of myelin from the CNS and the PNS has revealed that
CNS white matter is selectively inhibitory for axonal outgrowth. Several
components of CNS white matter, NI35, NI250(Nogo) and MAG, that have inhibitory
activity for axon extension have been described. The IN-1 antibody, which
recognizes NI35 and NI250(Nogo), allows moderate degrees of axonal regeneration
and functional recovery after spinal cord injury. Here we identify Nogo as a
member of the Reticulon family, Reticulon 4-A. Nogo is expressed by
oligodendrocytes but not by Schwann cells, and associates primarily with the
endoplasmic reticulum. A 66-residue lumenal/extracellular domain inhibits axonal 
extension and collapses dorsal root ganglion growth cones. In contrast to Nogo,
Reticulon 1 and 3 are not expressed by oligodendrocytes, and the 66-residue
lumenal/extracellular domains from Reticulon 1, 2 and 3 do not inhibit axonal
regeneration. These data provide a molecular basis to assess the contribution of 
Nogo to the failure of axonal regeneration in the adult CNS.

DOI: 10.1038/35000226 
PMID: 10667797  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):434-9.

Nogo-A is a myelin-associated neurite outgrowth inhibitor and an antigen for
monoclonal antibody IN-1.

Chen MS(1), Huber AB, van der Haar ME, Frank M, Schnell L, Spillmann AA, Christ
F, Schwab ME.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Research Institute, Department of Neuromorphology, University of Zurich,
Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):369-70.

The capacity of the adult brain and spinal cord to repair lesions by axonal
regeneration or compensatory fibre growth is extremely limited. A monoclonal
antibody (IN-1) raised against NI-220/250, a myelin protein that is a potent
inhibitor of neurite growth, promoted axonal regeneration and compensatory
plasticity following lesions of the central nervous system (CNS) in adult rats.
Here we report the cloning of nogo A, the rat complementary DNA encoding
NI-220/250. The nogo gene encodes at least three major protein products (Nogo-A, 
-B and -C). Recombinant Nogo-A is recognized by monoclonal antibody IN-1, and it 
inhibits neurite outgrowth from dorsal root ganglia and spreading of 3T3
fibroblasts in an IN-1-sensitive manner. Antibodies against Nogo-A stain CNS
myelin and oligodendrocytes and allow dorsal root ganglion neurites to grow on
CNS myelin and into optic nerve explants. These data show that Nogo-A is a potent
inhibitor of neurite growth and an IN-1 antigen produced by oligodendrocytes, and
may allow the generation of new reagents to enhance CNS regeneration and
plasticity.

DOI: 10.1038/35000219 
PMID: 10667796  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):430-4.

Noradrenaline in the ventral forebrain is critical for opiate withdrawal-induced 
aversion.

Delfs JM(1), Zhu Y, Druhan JP, Aston-Jones G.

Author information: 
(1)University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Department of Psychiatry, VA
Medical Center, Philadelphia 19104, USA.

Cessation of drug use in chronic opiate abusers produces a severe withdrawal
syndrome that is highly aversive, and avoidance of withdrawal or associated
stimuli is a major factor contributing to opiate abuse. Increased noradrenaline
in the brain has long been implicated in opiate withdrawal, but it has not been
clear which noradrenergic systems are involved. Here we show that microinjection 
of beta-noradrenergic-receptor antagonists, or of an alpha2-receptor agonist,
into the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) in rats markedly attenuates
opiate-withdrawal-induced conditioned place aversion. Immunohistochemical studies
revealed that numerous BNST-projecting cells in the A1 and A2 noradrenergic cell 
groups of the caudal medulla were activated during withdrawal. Lesion of these
ascending medullary projections also greatly reduced opiate-withdrawal-induced
place aversion, whereas lesion of locus coeruleus noradrenergic projections had
no effect on opiate-withdrawal behaviour. We conclude that noradrenergic inputs
to the BNST from the caudal medulla are critically involved in the aversiveness
of opiate withdrawal.

DOI: 10.1038/35000212 
PMID: 10667795  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):428-30.

Separable processing of consonants and vowels.

Caramazza A(1), Chialant D, Capasso R, Miceli G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, 
USA. caram@wjh.harvard.edu

There are two views about the nature of consonants and vowels. One view holds
that they are categorically distinct objects that play a fundamental role in the 
construction of syllables in speech production. The other view is that they are
convenient labels for distinguishing between peak (vowel) and non-peak
(consonant) parts of a continuous stream of sound that varies in sonority
(roughly the degree of openness of the vocal apparatus during speech), or that
they are summary labels for bundles of feature segments. Taking the latter view, 
consonants and vowels do not have an independent status in language processing.
Here we provide evidence for the possible categorical distinction between
consonants and vowels in the brain. We report the performance of two
Italian-speaking aphasics who show contrasting, selective difficulties in
producing vowels and consonants. Their performance in producing individual
consonants is independent of the sonority value and feature properties of the
consonants. This pattern of results suggests that consonants and vowels are
processed by distinct neural mechanisms, thereby providing evidence for their
independent status in language production.

DOI: 10.1038/35000206 
PMID: 10667794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):425-8.

Activin- and Nodal-related factors control antero-posterior patterning of the
zebrafish embryo.

Thisse B(1), Wright CV, Thisse C.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Génétique et de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire,
CNRS/INSERM/ULP, Illkirch, CU de Strasbourg, France.

Definition of cell fates along the dorso-ventral axis depends on an antagonistic 
relationship between ventralizing transforming growth factor-beta superfamily
members, the bone morphogenetic proteins and factors secreted from the dorsal
organizer, such as Noggin and Chordin. The extracellular binding of the last
group to the bone morphogenetic proteins prevents them from activating their
receptors, and the relative ventralizer:antagonist ratio is thought to specify
different dorso-ventral cell fates. Here, by taking advantage of a non-genetic
interference method using a specific competitive inhibitor, the Lefty-related
gene product Antivin, we provide evidence that cell fate along the
antero-posterior axis of the zebrafish embryo is controlled by the morphogenetic 
activity of another transforming growth factor-beta superfamily subgroup--the
Activin and Nodal-related factors. Increasing antivin doses progressively deleted
posterior fates within the ectoderm, eventually resulting in the removal of all
fates except forebrain and eyes. In contrast, overexpression of activin or
nodal-related factors converted ectoderm that was fated to be forebrain into more
posterior ectodermal or mesendodermal fates. We propose that modulation of
intercellular signalling by Antivin/Activin and Nodal-related factors provides a 
mechanism for the graded establishment of cell fates along the antero-posterior
axis of the zebrafish embryo.

DOI: 10.1038/35000200 
PMID: 10667793  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):421-4.

Stimulation by ammonium-based fertilizers of methane oxidation in soil around
rice roots.

Bodelier PL(1), Roslev P, Henckel T, Frenzel P.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Terrestrial Microbiology, Department of
Biogeochemistry, Marburg, Germany. bodelier@cl.nioo.knaw.nl

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):375, 377.

Methane is involved in a number of chemical and physical processes in the Earth's
atmosphere, including global warming. Atmospheric methane originates mainly from 
biogenic sources, such as rice paddies and natural wetlands; the former account
for at least 30% of the global annual emission of methane to the atmosphere. As
an increase of rice production by 60% is the most appropriate way to sustain the 
estimated increase of the human population during the next three decades,
intensified global fertilizer application will be necessary: but it is known that
an increase of the commonly used ammonium-based fertilizers can enhance methane
emission from rice agriculture. Approximately 10-30% of the methane produced by
methanogens in rice paddies is consumed by methane-oxidizing bacteria associated 
with the roots of rice; these bacteria are generally thought to be inhibited by
ammonium-based fertilizers, as was demonstrated for soils and sediments. In
contrast, we show here that the activity and growth of such bacteria in the root 
zone of rice plants are stimulated after fertilization. Using a combination of
radioactive fingerprinting and molecular biology techniques, we identify the
bacteria responsible for this effect. We expect that our results will make
necessary a re-evaluation of the link between fertilizer use and methane
emissions, with effects on global warming studies.

DOI: 10.1038/35000193 
PMID: 10667792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):416-20.

The Pleistocene serpent Wonambi and the early evolution of snakes.

Scanlon JD(1), Lee MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia.
jscanlon@ultra.net.au

The Madtsoiidae were medium sized to gigantic snakes with a fossil record
extending from the mid-Cretaceous to the Pleistocene, and spanning Europe,
Africa, Madagascar, South America and Australia. This widely distributed group
survived for about 90 million years (70% of known ophidian history), and
potentially provides important insights into the origin and early evolution of
snakes. However, madtsoiids are known mostly from their vertebrae, and their
skull morphology and phylogenetic affinities have been enigmatic. Here we report 
new Australian material of Wonambi, one of the last-surviving madtsoiids, that
allows the first detailed assessment of madtsoiid cranial anatomy and
relationships. Despite its recent age, which could have overlapped with human
history in Australia, Wonambi is one of the most primitive snakes known--as basal
as the Cretaceous forms Pachyrhachis and Dinilysia. None of these three primitive
snake lineages shows features associated with burrowing, nor do any of the
nearest lizard relatives of snakes (varanoids). These phylogenetic conclusions
contradict the widely held 'subterranean' theory of snake origins, and instead
imply that burrowing snakes (scolecophidians and anilioids) acquired their
fossorial adaptations after the evolution of the snake body form and jaw
apparatus in a large aquatic or (surface-active) terrestrial ancestor.

DOI: 10.1038/35000188 
PMID: 10667791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):414-6.

Precise climate monitoring using complementary satellite data sets

Wentz FJ(1), Schabel M.

Author information: 
(1)Remote Sensing Systems, Santa Rosa, California 95401, USA. wentz@remss.com

Observations from Earth-orbiting satellites have been a key component in
monitoring climate change for the past two decades. This has become possible with
the availability of air temperatures from the Microwave Sounding Unit (MSU) since
1979, sea surface temperatures from the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer 
(AVHRR) since 1982 and, most recently, measurements of atmospheric water vapour
content from the Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM/I) since 1987. Here we
present a detailed comparison of each pair of these three time series, focusing
on both interannual and decadal variations in climate. We find a strong
association between sea surface temperature, lower-tropospheric air temperature
and total column water-vapour content over large oceanic regions on both time
scales. This lends observational support to the idea of a constant relative
humidity model having a moist adiabatic lapse rate. On the decadal timescale, the
combination of data sets shows a consistent warming and moistening trend of the
marine atmosphere for 1987-1998.

DOI: 10.1038/35000184 
PMID: 10667790 


930. Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):410-4.

Rainfall and drought in equatorial east Africa during the past 1,100 years.

Verschuren D(1), Laird KR, Cumming BF.

Author information: 
(1)Limnological Research Center, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis 55455, USA.
dirk.verschuren@rug.ac.be

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):370-1.

Knowledge of natural long-term rainfall variability is essential for
water-resource and land-use management in sub-humid regions of the world. In
tropical Africa, data relevant to determining this variability are scarce because
of the lack of long instrumental climate records and the limited potential of
standard high-resolution proxy records such as tree rings and ice cores. Here we 
present a decade-scale reconstruction of rainfall and drought in equatorial east 
Africa over the past 1,100 years, based on lake-level and salinity fluctuations
of Lake Naivasha (Kenya) inferred from three different palaeolimnological
proxies: sediment stratigraphy and the species compositions of fossil diatom and 
midge assemblages. Our data indicate that, over the past millennium, equatorial
east Africa has alternated between contrasting climate conditions, with
significantly drier climate than today during the 'Medieval Warm Period'
(approximately AD 1000-1270) and a relatively wet climate during the 'Little Ice 
Age' (approximately AD 1270-1850) which was interrupted by three prolonged dry
episodes. We also find strong chronological links between the reconstructed
history of natural long-term rainfall variation and the pre-colonial cultural
history of east Africa, highlighting the importance of a detailed knowledge of
natural long-term rainfall fluctuations for sustainable socio-economic
development.

DOI: 10.1038/35000179 
PMID: 10667789  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):408-10.

Efficient organic photovoltaic diodes based on doped pentacene.

Schon JH(1), Kloc C, Bucher E, Batlogg B.

Author information: 
(1)Bell Laboratories, Lucent Technologies, New Jersey 07974-0636, USA.
hendrik@lucent.com

Retraction in
    Schön JH, Kloc Ch, Bucher E, Batlogg B. Nature. 2003 Mar 6;422(6927):93.

Recent work on solar cells based on interpenetrating polymer networks and
solid-state dye-sensitized devices shows that efficient solar-energy conversion
is possible using organic materials. Further, it has been demonstrated that the
performance of photovoltaic devices based on small molecules can be effectively
enhanced by doping the organic material with electron-accepting molecules. But as
inorganic solar cells show much higher efficiencies, well above 15 per cent, the 
practical utility of organic-based cells will require their fabrication by
lower-cost techniques, ideally on flexible substrates. Here we demonstrate
efficiency enhancement by molecular doping in Schottky-type photovoltaic diodes
based on pentacene--an organic semiconductor that has received much attention as 
a promising material for organic thin-film transistors, but relatively little
attention for use in photovoltaic devices. The incorporation of the dopant
improves the internal quantum efficiency by more than five orders of magnitude
and yields an external energy conversion efficiency as high as 2.4 per cent for a
standard solar spectrum. Thin-film devices based on doped pentacene therefore
appear promising for the production of efficient 'plastic' solar cells.

DOI: 10.1038/35000172 
PMID: 10667788 


932. Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):405-7.

A single-photon detector in the far-infrared range

Komiyama S(1), Astafiev O, Antonov V V, Kutsuwa T, Hirai H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Basic Science, University of Tokyo, Japan.
csusumu@ASone.c.u.-tokyo.ac.jp

The far-infrared region (wavelengths in the range 10 microm-1 mm) is one of the
richest areas of spectroscopic research, encompassing the rotational spectra of
molecules and vibrational spectra of solids, liquids and gases. But studies in
this spectral region are hampered by the absence of sensitive detectors--despite 
recent efforts to improve superconducting bolometers, attainable sensitivities
are currently far below the level of single-photon detection. This is in marked
contrast to the visible and near-infrared regions (wavelengths shorter than about
1.5 microm), in which single-photon counting is possible using photomultiplier
tubes. Here we report the detection of single far-infrared photons in the
wavelength range 175-210 microm (6.0-7.1 meV), using a single-electron transistor
consisting of a semiconductor quantum dot in high magnetic field. We detect, with
a time resolution of a millisecond, an incident flux of 0.1 photons per second on
an effective detector area of 0.1 mm2--a sensitivity that exceeds previously
reported values by a factor of more than 10(4). The sensitivity is a consequence 
of the unconventional detection mechanism, in which one absorbed photon leads to 
a current of 10(6)-10(12) electrons through the quantum dot. By contrast,
mechanisms of conventional detectors or photon assisted tunnelling in
single-electron transistors produce only a few electrons per incident photon.

DOI: 10.1038/35000166 
PMID: 10667787 


933. Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):401-4.

Singularity dynamics in curvature collapse and jet eruption on a fluid surface

Zeff BW(1), Kleber B, Fineberg J, Lathrop DP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Plasma Research and Department of Physics, The University of
Maryland, College Park 20742, USA.

Finite-time singularities--local divergences in the amplitude or gradient of a
physical observable at a particular time--occur in a diverse range of physical
systems. Examples include singularities capable of damaging optical fibres and
lasers in nonlinear optical systems, and gravitational singularities associated
with black holes. In fluid systems, the formation of finite-time singularities
cause spray and air-bubble entrainment, processes which influence air-sea
interaction on a global scale. Singularities driven by surface tension have been 
studied in the break-up of pendant drops and liquid sheets. Here we report a
theoretical and experimental study of the generation of a singularity by inertial
focusing, in which no break-up of the fluid surface occurs. Inertial forces cause
a collapse of the surface that leads to jet formation; our analysis, which
includes surface tension effects, predicts that the surface profiles should be
describable by a single universal exponent. These theoretical predictions
correlate closely with our experimental measurements of a collapsing surface
singularity. The solution can be generalized to apply to a broad class of
singular phenomena.

DOI: 10.1038/35000151 
PMID: 10667786 


934. Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):398-401.

Dynamic instabilities and memory effects in vortex matter

Paltiel Y(1), Zeldov E, Myasoedov YN, Shtrikman H, Bhattacharya S, Higgins MJ,
Xiao ZL, Andrei EY, Gammel PL, Bishop DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Condensed Matter Physics, The Weizmann Institute of Science,
Rehovot, Israel. hpalt@wis.weizmann.ac.il

The magnetic flux line lattice in type II superconductors serves as a useful
system in which to study condensed matter flow, as its dynamic properties are
tunable. Recent studies have shown a number of puzzling phenomena associated with
vortex motion, including: low-frequency noise and slow voltage oscillations; a
history-dependent dynamic response, and memory of the direction, amplitude
duration and frequency of the previously applied current; high vortex mobility
for alternating current, but no apparent vortex motion for direct currents; and
strong suppression of an a.c. response by small d.c. bias. Taken together, these 
phenomena are incompatible with current understanding of vortex dynamics. Here we
report a generic mechanism that accounts for these observations. Our model, which
is derived from investigations of the current distribution across single crystals
of NbSe2, is based on a competition between the injection of a disordered vortex 
phase at the sample edges, and the dynamic annealing of this metastable disorder 
by the transport current. For an alternating current, only narrow regions near
the edges are in the disordered phase, while for d.c. bias, most of the sample is
in the disordered phase--preventing vortex motion because of more efficient
pinning. The resulting spatial dependence of the disordered vortex system serves 
as an active memory of the previous history.

DOI: 10.1038/35000145 
PMID: 10667785 


935. Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):396-8.

Probing bulk states of correlated electron systems by high-resolution resonance
photoemission

Sekiyama A(1), Iwasaki T, Matsuda K, Saitoh Y, Onuki Y, Suga S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Material Physics, Graduate School of Engineering Science, Osaka 
University, Toyonaka, Japan. sekiyama@mp.es.osaka-u.ac.jp

Electron correlations are known to play an important role in determining the
unusual physical properties of a variety of compounds. Such properties include
high-temperature superconductivity, heavy fermion behaviour and
metal-to-insulator transitions. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy (PES) 
provides a means of directly probing the electronic states (particularly those
near the Fermi level) in these materials, but the short photoelectron mean free
paths (< or = 5 A) associated with the low excitation energies conventionally
used (< or = 120 eV) make this a surface-sensitive technique. Now that
high-resolution PES is possible at much higher energies, with mean free paths as 
long as 15 A (ref. 6), it should become feasible to probe the bulk electronic
states in these materials. Here we demonstrate the power of this technique by
applying it to the cerium compounds CeRu2Si2 and CeRu2. Previous PES studies of
these compounds revealed very similar spectra for the Ce 4f electronic states,
yet it is expected that such states should be different owing to their differing 
degrees of hybridization with other valence bands. Our determination of the bulk 
Ce 4f electronic states of these compounds resolves these differences.

DOI: 10.1038/35000140 
PMID: 10667784 


936. Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):391-5.

A pigment-binding protein essential for regulation of photosynthetic light
harvesting.

Li XP(1), Björkman O, Shih C, Grossman AR, Rosenquist M, Jansson S, Niyogi KK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant and Microbial Biology, University of California, Berkeley 
94720-3102, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):371, 373-4.
    Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):381-2.

Photosynthetic light harvesting in plants is regulated in response to changes in 
incident light intensity. Absorption of light that exceeds a plant's capacity for
fixation of CO2 results in thermal dissipation of excitation energy in the
pigment antenna of photosystem II by a poorly understood mechanism. This
regulatory process, termed nonphotochemical quenching, maintains the balance
between dissipation and utilization of light energy to minimize generation of
oxidizing molecules, thereby protecting the plant against photo-oxidative damage.
To identify specific proteins that are involved in nonphotochemical quenching, we
have isolated mutants of Arabidopsis thaliana that cannot dissipate excess
absorbed light energy. Here we show that the gene encoding PsbS, an intrinsic
chlorophyll-binding protein of photosystem II, is necessary for nonphotochemical 
quenching but not for efficient light harvesting and photosynthesis. These
results indicate that PsbS may be the site for nonphotochemical quenching, a
finding that has implications for the functional evolution of pigment-binding
proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/35000131 
PMID: 10667783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):385-9.

Nodal signalling in vertebrate development.

Schier AF(1), Shen MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, New York University School of Medicine, New York
10016, USA. schier@saturn.med.nyu.edu

Communication between cells during early embryogenesis establishes the basic
organization of the vertebrate body plan. Recent work suggests that a signalling 
pathway centering on Nodal, a transforming growth factor beta-related signal, is 
responsible for many of the events that configure the vertebrate embryo. The
activity of Nodal signals is regulated extracellularly by EGF-CFC cofactors and
antagonists of the Lefty and Cerberus families of proteins, allowing precise
control of mesoderm and endoderm formation, the positioning of the
anterior-posterior axis, neural patterning and left-right axis specification.

DOI: 10.1038/35000126 
PMID: 10667782  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):339-42.

Construction of a genetic toggle switch in Escherichia coli.

Gardner TS(1), Cantor CR, Collins JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Center for BioDynamics, Boston
University, Massachusetts 02215, USA.

It has been proposed' that gene-regulatory circuits with virtually any desired
property can be constructed from networks of simple regulatory elements. These
properties, which include multistability and oscillations, have been found in
specialized gene circuits such as the bacteriophage lambda switch and the
Cyanobacteria circadian oscillator. However, these behaviours have not been
demonstrated in networks of non-specialized regulatory components. Here we
present the construction of a genetic toggle switch-a synthetic, bistable
gene-regulatory network-in Escherichia coli and provide a simple theory that
predicts the conditions necessary for bistability. The toggle is constructed from
any two repressible promoters arranged in a mutually inhibitory network. It is
flipped between stable states using transient chemical or thermal induction and
exhibits a nearly ideal switching threshold. As a practical device, the toggle
switch forms a synthetic, addressable cellular memory unit and has implications
for biotechnology, biocomputing and gene therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/35002131 
PMID: 10659857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):335-8.

A synthetic oscillatory network of transcriptional regulators.

Elowitz MB(1), Leibler S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Physics, Princeton University, New Jersey 
08544, USA. melowitz@princeton.edu

Networks of interacting biomolecules carry out many essential functions in living
cells, but the 'design principles' underlying the functioning of such
intracellular networks remain poorly understood, despite intensive efforts
including quantitative analysis of relatively simple systems. Here we present a
complementary approach to this problem: the design and construction of a
synthetic network to implement a particular function. We used three
transcriptional repressor systems that are not part of any natural biological
clock to build an oscillating network, termed the repressilator, in Escherichia
coli. The network periodically induces the synthesis of green fluorescent protein
as a readout of its state in individual cells. The resulting oscillations, with
typical periods of hours, are slower than the cell-division cycle, so the state
of the oscillator has to be transmitted from generation to generation. This
artificial clock displays noisy behaviour, possibly because of stochastic
fluctuations of its components. Such 'rational network design may lead both to
the engineering of new cellular behaviours and to an improved understanding of
naturally occurring networks.

DOI: 10.1038/35002125 
PMID: 10659856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):332-5.

The joining of ribosomal subunits in eukaryotes requires eIF5B.

Pestova TV(1), Lomakin IB, Lee JH, Choi SK, Dever TE, Hellen CU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, State University of New York Health
Science Center at Brooklyn, 11203, USA. tpestova@netmail.hscbklyn.edu

Initiation of eukaryotic protein synthesis begins with the ribosome separated
into its 40S and 60S subunits. The 40S subunit first binds eukaryotic initiation 
factor (eIF) 3 and an eIF2-GTP-initiator transfer RNA ternary complex. The
resulting complex requires eIF1, eIF1A, eIF4A, eIF4B and eIF4F to bind to a
messenger RNA and to scan to the initiation codon. eIF5 stimulates hydrolysis of 
eIF2-bound GTP and eIF2 is released from the 48S complex formed at the initiation
codon before it is joined by a 60S subunit to form an active 80S ribosome. Here
we show that hydrolysis of eIF2-bound GTP induced by eIF5 in 48S complexes is
necessary but not sufficient for the subunits to join. A second factor termed
eIF5B (relative molecular mass 175,000) is essential for this process. It is a
homologue of the prokaryotic initiation factor IF2 (re and, like it, mediates
joining of subunits and has a ribosome-dependent GTPase activity that is
essential for its function.

DOI: 10.1038/35002118 
PMID: 10659855  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):328-32.

Regulation of carbamoyl phosphate synthetase by MAP kinase.

Graves LM(1), Guy HI, Kozlowski P, Huang M, Lazarowski E, Pope RM, Collins MA,
Dahlstrand EN, Earp HS 3rd, Evans DR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill, 27599-7365, USA. lmg@med.unc.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):255-6.

The de novo synthesis of pyrimidine nucleotides is required for mammalian cells
to proliferate. The rate-limiting step in this pathway is catalysed by carbamoyl 
phosphate synthetase (CPS II), part of the multifunctional enzyme CAD. Here we
describe the regulation of CAD by the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase
cascade. When phosphorylated by MAP kinase in vitro or activated by epidermal
growth factor in vivo, CAD lost its feedback inhibition (which is dependent on
uridine triphosphate) and became more sensitive to activation (which depends upon
phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate). Both these allosteric regulatory changes favour
biosynthesis of pyrimidines for growth. They were accompanied by increased
epidermal growth factor-dependent phosphorylation of CAD in vivo and were
prevented by inhibition of MAP kinase. Mutation of a consensus MAP kinase
phosphorylation site abolished the changes in CAD allosteric regulation that were
stimulated by growth factors. Finally, consistent with an effect of MAP kinase
signalling on CPS II activity, epidermal growth factor increased cellular uridine
triphosphate and this increase was reversed by inhibition of MAP kinase. Hence
these studies may indicate a direct link between activation of the MAP kinase
cascade and de novo biosynthesis of pyrimidine nucleotides.

DOI: 10.1038/35002111 
PMID: 10659854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):325-8.

KIR expression on self-reactive CD8+ T cells is controlled by T-cell receptor
engagement.

Huard B(1), Karlsson L.

Author information: 
(1)The R.W. Johnson Pharmaceutical Research Institute, San Diego, California
92121, USA. huard@cmu.unige.ch

Natural killer cell tolerance is maintained by the interaction of killer
inhibitory receptors (KIRs) with self-major histocompatibility complex class I
gene products. A subset of T cells also expresses inhibitory receptors, but the
functional significance of these receptors on T cells is unclear. Here we show
that, in the absence of T-cell receptor (TCR) engagement, KIRs expressed on CD8+ 
T cells are slowly downregulated by KIR ligands expressed on antigen-presenting
cells. The resulting expression levels of KIR are no longer able to inhibit
T-cell function. In contrast, TCR engagement sustains KIR expression, and
re-induces functional levels of KIR expression after ligand-induced
downregulation of KIR. Our data indicate that KIR expression on CD8+ T cells in
vivo may be maintained through continuous encounters with antigen. As
KIR-mediated inhibition of T-cell activation can be bypassed at high antigen
concentrations, dynamic KIR expression may mediate T-cell tolerance to
self-antigens by sparing self-reactive T cells, thus enabling them to mediate
potentially useful immune functions to quantitatively or qualitatively different 
antigens.

DOI: 10.1038/35002105 
PMID: 10659853  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):321-5.

Blocker protection in the pore of a voltage-gated K+ channel and its structural
implications.

del Camino D(1), Holmgren M, Liu Y, Yellen G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

The structure of the bacterial potassium channel KcsA has provided a framework
for understanding the related voltage-gated potassium channels (Kv channels) that
are used for signalling in neurons. Opening and closing of these Kv channels
(gating) occurs at the intracellular entrance to the pore, and this is also the
site at which many open channel blockers affect Kv channels. To learn more about 
the sites of blocker binding and about the structure of the open Kv channel, we
investigated here the ability of blockers to protect against chemical
modification of cysteines introduced at sites in transmembrane segment S6, which 
contributes to the intracellular entrance. Within the intracellular half of S6 we
found an abrupt cessation of protection for both large and small blockers that is
inconsistent with the narrow 'inner pore' seen in the KcsA structure. These and
other results are most readily explained by supposing that the structure of Kv
channels differs from that of the non-voltage-gated bacterial channel by the
introduction of a sharp bend in the inner (S6) helices. This bend would occur at 
a Pro-X-Pro sequence that is highly conserved in Kv channels, near the site of
activation gating.

DOI: 10.1038/35002099 
PMID: 10659852  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):316-21.

Glutamate release in severe brain ischaemia is mainly by reversed uptake.

Rossi DJ(1), Oshima T, Attwell D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University College London, UK.

The release of glutamate during brain anoxia or ischaemia triggers the death of
neurons, causing mental or physical handicap. The mechanism of glutamate release 
is controversial, however. Four release mechanisms have been postulated:
vesicular release dependent on external calcium or Ca2+ released from
intracellular stores; release through swelling-activated anion channels; an
indomethacin-sensitive process in astrocytes; and reversed operation of glutamate
transporters. Here we have mimicked severe ischaemia in hippocampal slices and
monitored glutamate release as a receptor-gated current in the CA1 pyramidal
cells that are killed preferentially in ischaemic hippocampus. Using blockers of 
the different release mechanisms, we demonstrate that glutamate release is
largely by reversed operation of neuronal glutamate transporters, and that it
plays a key role in generating the anoxic depolarization that abolishes
information processing in the central nervous system a few minutes after the
start of ischaemia. A mathematical model incorporating K+ channels, reversible
uptake carriers and NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptor channels reproduces the 
main features of the response to ischaemia. Thus, transporter-mediated glutamate 
homeostasis fails dramatically in ischaemia: instead of removing extracellular
glutamate to protect neurons, transporters release glutamate, triggering neuronal
death.

DOI: 10.1038/35002090 
PMID: 10659851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):312-6.

Functional regeneration of sensory axons into the adult spinal cord.

Ramer MS(1), Priestley JV, McMahon SB.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas' School of
Biomedical Sciences, London, UK. matt.ramer@kcl.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):257, 259-60.

The arrest of dorsal root axonal regeneration at the transitional zone between
the peripheral and central nervous system has been repeatedly described since the
early twentieth century. Here we show that, with trophic support to damaged
sensory axons, this regenerative barrier is surmountable. In adult rats with
injured dorsal roots, treatment with nerve growth factor (NGF), neurotrophin-3
(NT3) and glial-cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), but not
brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), resulted in selective regrowth of
damaged axons across the dorsal root entry zone and into the spinal cord. Dorsal 
horn neurons were found to be synaptically driven by peripheral nerve stimulation
in rats treated with NGF, NT3 and GDNF, demonstrating functional reconnection. In
behavioural studies, rats treated with NGF and GDNF recovered sensitivity to
noxious heat and pressure. The observed effects of neurotrophic factors
corresponded to their known actions on distinct subpopulations of sensory
neurons. Neurotrophic factor treatment may thus serve as a viable treatment in
promoting recovery from root avulsion injuries. I

DOI: 10.1038/35002084 
PMID: 10659850  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):309-12.

Voice-selective areas in human auditory cortex.

Belin P(1), Zatorre RJ, Lafaille P, Ahad P, Pike B.

Author information: 
(1)Neuropsychology/Cognitive Neuroscience Unit, Montreal Neurological Institute, 
McGill University, Québec, Canada. pascal@bic.mni.mcgill.ca

The human voice contains in its acoustic structure a wealth of information on the
speaker's identity and emotional state which we perceive with remarkable ease and
accuracy. Although the perception of speaker-related features of voice plays a
major role in human communication, little is known about its neural basis. Here
we show, using functional magnetic resonance imaging in human volunteers, that
voice-selective regions can be found bilaterally along the upper bank of the
superior temporal sulcus (STS). These regions showed greater neuronal activity
when subjects listened passively to vocal sounds, whether speech or non-speech,
than to non-vocal environmental sounds. Central STS regions also displayed a high
degree of selectivity by responding significantly more to vocal sounds than to
matched control stimuli, including scrambled voices and amplitude-modulated
noise. Moreover, their response to stimuli degraded by frequency filtering
paralleled the subjects' behavioural performance in voice-perception tasks that
used these stimuli. The voice-selective areas in the STS may represent the
counterpart of the face-selective areas in human visual cortex; their existence
sheds new light on the functional architecture of the human auditory cortex.

DOI: 10.1038/35002078 
PMID: 10659849  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):304-9.

Rapid evolution of male reproductive genes in the descent of man.

Wyckoff GJ(1), Wang W, Wu CI.

Author information: 
(1)Committee on Genetics, University of Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.
gwyckoff@midway.uchicago.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):261, 263.

A diverse body of morphological and genetic evidence has suggested that traits
pertaining to male reproduction may have evolved much more rapidly than other
types of character. Recently, DNA sequence comparisons have also shown a very
high level of divergence in male reproductive proteins between closely related
Drosophila species, among marine invertebrates and between mouse and rat. Here we
show that rapid evolution of male reproductive genes is observable in primates
and is quite notable in the lineages to human and chimpanzee. Nevertheless, rapid
evolution by itself is not necessarily an indication of positive darwinian
selection; relaxation of negative selection is often equally compatible with the 
DNA sequence data. By taking three statistical approaches, we show that positive 
darwinian selection is often the driving force behind this rapid evolution. These
results open up opportunities to test the hypothesis that sexual selection plays 
some role in the molecular evolution of higher primates.

DOI: 10.1038/35002070 
PMID: 10659848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):301-4.

Annual fluxes of carbon from deforestation and regrowth in the Brazilian Amazon.

Houghton RA(1), Skole DL, Nobre CA, Hackler JL, Lawrence KT, Chomentowski WH.

Author information: 
(1)Woods Hole Research Center, Massachusetts 02543, USA. rhoughton@whrc.org

The distribution of sources and sinks of carbon among the world's ecosystems is
uncertain. Some analyses show northern mid-latitude lands to be a large sink,
whereas the tropics are a net source; other analyses show the tropics to be
nearly neutral, whereas northern mid-latitudes are a small sink. Here we show
that the annual flux of carbon from deforestation and abandonment of agricultural
lands in the Brazilian Amazon was a source of about 0.2 Pg Cyr(-1) over the
period 1989-1998 (1 Pg is 10(15) g). This estimate is based on annual rates of
deforestation and spatially detailed estimates of deforestation, regrowing
forests and biomass. Logging may add another 5-10% to this estimate, and fires
may double the magnitude of the source in years following a drought. The annual
source of carbon from land-use change and fire approximately offsets the sink
calculated for natural ecosystems in the region. Thus this large area of tropical
forest is nearly balanced with respect to carbon, but has an interannual
variability of +/- 0.2 PgC yr(-1).

DOI: 10.1038/35002062 
PMID: 10659847  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):298-301.

Halocarbons produced by natural oxidation processes during degradation of organic
matter.

Keppler F(1), Eiden R, Niedan V, Pracht J, Schöler HF.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Environmental Geochemistry, Heidelberg University, Germany.
fkeppler@ix.urz.uni-heidelberg.de

Erratum in
    Nature 2001 Jan 18;409(6818):382.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):260-1.

Volatile halogenated organic compounds (VHOC) play an important role in
atmospheric chemical processes-contributing, for example, to stratospheric ozone 
depletion. For anthropogenic VHOC whose sources are well known, the global
atmospheric input can be estimated from industrial production data. Halogenated
compounds of natural origin can also contribute significantly to the levels of
VHOC in the atmosphere. The oceans have been implicated as one of the main
natural sources, where organisms such as macroalgae and microalgae can release
large quantities of VHOC to the atmosphere. Some terrestrial sources have also
been identified, such as wood-rotting fungi, biomass burning and volcanic
emissions. Here we report the identification of a different terrestrial source of
naturally occurring VHOC. We find that, in soils and sediments, halide ions can
be alkylated during the oxidation of organic matter by an electron acceptor such 
as Fe(III): sunlight or microbial mediation are not required for these reactions.
When the available halide ion is chloride, the reaction products are CH3Cl,
C2H5Cl, C3H7Cl and C4H9Cl. (The corresponding alkyl bromides or alkyl iodides are
produced when bromide or iodide are present.) Such abiotic processes could make a
significant contribution to the budget of the important atmospheric compounds
CH3Cl, CH3Br and CH3I.

DOI: 10.1038/35002055 
PMID: 10659846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):295-8.

A strong source of methyl chloride to the atmosphere from tropical coastal land.

Yokouchi Y(1), Noijiri Y, Barrie LA, Toom-Sauntry D, Machida T, Inuzuka Y,
Akimoto H, Li HJ, Fujinuma Y, Aoki S.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Environmental Studies, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.
yokouchi@nies.go.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):260-1.

Methyl chloride (CH3Cl), the most abundant halocarbon in the atmosphere, has
received much attention as a natural source of chlorine atoms in the
stratosphere. The annual global flux of CH3Cl has been estimated to be around 3.5
Tg on the grounds that this must balance the loss through reaction with OH
radicals (which gives a lifetime for atmospheric CH3Cl of 1.5 yr). The most
likely main source of methyl chloride has been thought to be oceanic emission,
with biomass burning the second largest source. But recent seawater measurements 
indicate that oceanic fluxes cannot account for more than 12% of the estimated
global flux of CH3Cl, raising the question of where the remainder comes from.
Here we report evidence of significant CH3Cl emission from warm coastal land,
particularly from tropical islands. This conclusion is based on a global
monitoring study and spot measurements, which show enhancement of atmospheric
CH3Cl in the tropics, a close correlation between CH3Cl concentrations and those 
of biogenic compounds emitted by terrestrial plants, and OH-linked seasonality of
CH3Cl concentrations in middle and high latitudes. A strong, equatorially located
source of this nature would explain why the distribution of CH3Cl is uniform
between the Northern and Southern hemispheres, despite their differences in ocean
and land area.

DOI: 10.1038/35002049 
PMID: 10659845  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):292-5.

Natural methyl bromide and methyl chloride emissions from coastal salt marshes.

Rhew RC(1), Miller BR, Weiss RF.

Author information: 
(1)Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California at San Diego, La
Jolla 92093-0244, USA. rob@gaslab.ucsd.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):260-1.

Atmospheric methyl bromide (CH3Br) and methyl chloride (CH3Cl), compounds that
are involved in stratospheric ozone depletion, originate from both natural and
anthropogenic sources. Current estimates of CH3Br and CH3Cl emissions from
oceanic sources, terrestrial plants and fungi, biomass burning and anthropogenic 
inputs do not balance their losses owing to oxidation by hydroxyl radicals,
oceanic degradation, and consumption in soils, suggesting that additional natural
terrestrial sources may be important. Here we show that CH3Br and CH3Cl are
released to the atmosphere from all vegetation zones of two coastal salt marshes.
We see very large fluxes of CH3Br and CH3Cl per unit area: up to 42 and 570
micromol m(-2) d(-1), respectively. The fluxes show large diurnal, seasonal and
spatial variabilities, but there is a strong correlation between the fluxes of
CH3Br and those of CH3Cl, with an average molar flux ratio of roughly 1:20. If
our measurements are typical of salt marshes globally, they suggest that such
ecosystems, even though they constitute less than 0.1% of the global surface
area, may produce roughly 10% of the total fluxes of atmospheric CH3Br and CH3Cl.

DOI: 10.1038/35002043 
PMID: 10659844  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):289-92.

Biomimetic synthesis of ordered silica structures mediated by block
copolypeptides.

Cha JN(1), Stucky GD, Morse DE, Deming TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Santa Barbara 93106, USA.

In biological systems such as diatoms and sponges, the formation of solid silica 
structures with precisely controlled morphologies is directed by proteins and
polysaccharides and occurs in water at neutral pH and ambient temperature.
Laboratory methods, in contrast, have to rely on extreme pH conditions and/or
surfactants to induce the condensation of silica precursors into specific
morphologies or patterned structures. This contrast in processing conditions and 
the growing demand for benign synthesis methods that minimize adverse
environmental effects have spurred much interest in biomimetic approaches in
materials science. The recent demonstration that silicatein-a protein found in
the silica spicules of the sponge Tethya aurantia--can hydrolyse and condense the
precursor molecule tetraethoxysilane to form silica structures with controlled
shapes at ambient conditions seems particularly promising in this context. Here
we describe synthetic cysteine-lysine block copolypeptides that mimic the
properties of silicatein: the copolypeptides self-assemble into structured
aggregates that hydrolyse tetraethoxysilane while simultaneously directing the
formation of ordered silica morphologies. We find that oxidation of the cysteine 
sulphydryl groups, which is known to affect the assembly of the block
copolypeptide, allows us to produce different structures: hard silica spheres and
well-defined columns of amorphous silica are produced using the fully reduced and
the oxidized forms of the copolymer, respectively.

DOI: 10.1038/35002038 
PMID: 10659843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):286-9.

Molecular imprinting of bulk, microporous silica

Katz A(1), Davis ME.

Author information: 
(1)Chemical Engineering, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena 91125, USA.

Molecular imprinting aims to create solid materials containing chemical
functionalities that are spatially organized by covalent or non-covalent
interactions with imprint (or template) molecules during the synthesis process.
Subsequent removal of the imprint molecules leaves behind designed sites for the 
recognition of small molecules, making the material ideally suited for
applications such as separations, chemical sensing and catalysis. Until now, the 
molecular imprinting of bulk polymers and polymer and silica surfaces has been
reported, but the extension of these methods to a wider range of materials
remains problematic. For example, the formation of substrate-specific cavities
within bulk silica, while conceptually straightforward, has been difficult to
accomplish experimentally. Here we describe the imprinting of bulk amorphous
silicas with single aromatic rings carrying up to three
3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane side groups; this generates and occupies
microporosity and attaches functional organic groups to the pore walls in a
controlled fashion. The triethoxysilane part of the molecules' side groups is
incorporated into the silica framework during sol-gel synthesis, and subsequent
removal of the aromatic core creates a cavity with spatially organized
aminopropyl groups covalently anchored to the pore walls. We find that the
imprinted silicas act as shape-selective base catalysts. Our strategy can be
extended to imprint other functional groups, which should give access to a wide
range of functionalized materials.

DOI: 10.1038/35002032 
PMID: 10659842 


954. Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):283-6.

Dynamics of supercooled water in confined geometry

Bergman R(1), Swenson J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Physics, Chalmers University of Technology,
Goteborg, Sweden. f5xrb@fy.chalmers.se

As with most liquids, it is possible to supercool water; this generally involves 
cooling the liquid below its melting temperature (avoiding crystallization) until
it eventually forms a glass. The viscosity and related relaxation times (tau) of 
glass-forming liquids typically show non-Arrhenius temperature (T) dependencies. 
Liquids with highly non-Arrhenius behaviour in the supercooled region are termed 
'fragile'. In contrast, liquids whose behaviour is close to the Arrhenius law (In
tau infinity 1/T) are termed 'strong'. A unique 'fragile-strong' transition
around 228 K has been proposed for supercooled water; however, experimental
studies of bulk supercooled water in this temperature range are generally
hampered because crystallization occurs. Here we use broad-band dielectric
spectroscopy to study the relaxation dynamics of supercooled water in a wide
temperature range, including the usually inaccessible temperature region. This is
possible because the supercooled water is held within a layered vermiculite
clay-the geometrical confinement and presence of intercalated sodium ions prevent
most of the water from crystallizing. We find a relaxational process with an
Arrhenius temperature dependence, consistent with the proposed strong nature of
deeply supercooled bulk water. Because water that is less supercooled has been
established as highly fragile, our results support the existence of a
fragile-strong transition.

DOI: 10.1038/35002027 
PMID: 10659841 


955. Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):281-3.

Polarization rotation mechanism for ultrahigh electromechanical response in
single-crystal piezoelectrics

Fu H(1), Cohen RE.

Author information: 
(1)Carnegie Institution of Washington, DC 20015, USA.

Piezoelectric materials, which convert mechanical to electrical energy (and vice 
versa), are crucial in medical imaging, telecommunication and ultrasonic devices.
A new generation of single-crystal materials, such as Pb(Zn1/3Nb2/3)O3-PbTiO3
(PZN-PT) and Pb(Mg1/3Nb2/3)O3-PbTiO3 (PMN-PT), exhibit a piezoelectric effect
that is ten times larger than conventional ceramics, and may revolutionize these 
applications. However, the mechanism underlying the ultrahigh performance of
these new materials-and consequently the possibilities for further
improvements-are not at present clear. Here we report a first-principles study of
the ferroelectric perovskite, BaTiO3, which is similar to single-crystal PZN-PT
but is a simpler system to analyse. We show that a large piezoelectric response
can be driven by polarization rotation induced by an external electric field. Our
computations suggest how to design materials with better performance, and may
stimulate further interest in the fundamental theory of dielectric systems in
finite electric fields.

DOI: 10.1038/35002022 
PMID: 10659840 


956. Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):274-80.

Direct protein-protein coupling enables cross-talk between dopamine D5 and
gamma-aminobutyric acid A receptors.

Liu F(1), Wan Q, Pristupa ZB, Yu XM, Wang YT, Niznik HB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

GABA(A) (gamma-aminobutyric-acid A) and dopamine D1 and D5 receptors represent
two structurally and functionally divergent families of neurotransmitter
receptors. The former comprises a class of multi-subunit ligand-gated channels
mediating fast interneuronal synaptic transmission, whereas the latter belongs to
the seven-transmembrane-domain single-polypeptide receptor superfamily that
exerts its biological effects, including the modulation of GABA(A) receptor
function, through the activation of second-messenger signalling cascades by G
proteins. Here we show that GABA(A)-ligand-gated channels complex selectively
with D5 receptors through the direct binding of the D5 carboxy-terminal domain
with the second intracellular loop of the GABA(A) gamma2(short) receptor subunit.
This physical association enables mutually inhibitory functional interactions
between these receptor systems. The data highlight a previously unknown signal
transduction mechanism whereby subtype-selective G-protein-coupled receptors
dynamically regulate synaptic strength independently of classically defined
second-messenger systems, and provide a heuristic framework in which to view
these receptor systems in the maintenance of psychomotor disease states.

DOI: 10.1038/35002014 
PMID: 10659839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):269-73.

Decoherence of quantum superpositions through coupling to engineered reservoirs

Myatt CJ(1), King BE, Turchette QA, Sackett CA, Kielpinski D, Itano WM, Monroe C,
Wineland DJ.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Standards and Technology, Div. 847.10, Boulder, Colorado
80303, USA.

The theory of quantum mechanics applies to closed systems. In such ideal
situations, a single atom can, for example, exist simultaneously in a
superposition of two different spatial locations. In contrast, real systems
always interact with their environment, with the consequence that macroscopic
quantum superpositions (as illustrated by the 'Schrodinger's cat'
thought-experiment) are not observed. Moreover, macroscopic superpositions decay 
so quickly that even the dynamics of decoherence cannot be observed. However,
mesoscopic systems offer the possibility of observing the decoherence of such
quantum superpositions. Here we present measurements of the decoherence of
superposed motional states of a single trapped atom. Decoherence is induced by
coupling the atom to engineered reservoirs, in which the coupling and state of
the environment are controllable. We perform three experiments, finding that the 
decoherence rate scales with the square of a quantity describing the amplitude of
the superposition state.

DOI: 10.1038/35002001 
PMID: 10659838 


958. Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):223-6.

Bioorganic synthesis of lipid-modified proteins for the study of signal
transduction.

Bader B(1), Kuhn K, Owen DJ, Waldmann H, Wittinghofer A, Kuhlmann J.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck Institut für Molekulare Physiologie, Dortmund, Germany.

Biological membranes define the boundaries of the cellular compartments in higher
eukaryotes and are active in many processes such as signal transduction and
vesicular transport. Although post-translational lipid modification of numerous
proteins in signal transduction is crucial for biological function, analysis of
protein-protein interactions has mainly focused on recombinant proteins in
solution under defined in vitro conditions. Here we present a new strategy for
the synthesis of such lipid-modified proteins. It involves the bacterial
expression of a carboxy-terminally truncated non-lipidated protein, the chemical 
synthesis of differently lipidated peptides representing the C terminus of the
proteins, and their covalent coupling. Our technique is demonstrated using Ras
constructs, which exhibit properties very similar to fully processed Ras, but can
be produced in high yields and are open for selective modifications. These
constructs are operative in biophysical and cellular assay systems, showing
specific recognition of effectors by Ras lipoproteins inserted into the membrane 
surface of biosensors and transforming activity of oncogenic variants after
microinjection into cultured cells.

DOI: 10.1038/35003249 
PMID: 10646611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):220-3.

Measurement of thermal contribution to photoreceptor sensitivity.

Koskelainen A(1), Ala-Laurila P, Fyhrquist N, Donner K.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biomedical Engineering, Helsinki University of Technology,
Finland. ari.koskelainen@hut.fi

Activation of a visual pigment molecule to initiate phototransduction requires a 
minimum energy, Ea, that need not be wholly derived from a photon, but may be
supplemented by heat. Theory predicts that absorbance at very long wavelengths
declines with the fraction of molecules that have a sufficient complement of
thermal energy, and that Ea is inversely related to the wavelength of maximum
absorbance (lambda(max)) of the pigment. Consistent with the first of these
predictions, warming increases relative visual sensitivity to long wavelengths.
Here we measure this effect in amphibian photoreceptors with different pigments
to estimate Ea (refs 2, 5-7) and test experimentally the predictions of an
inverse relation between Ea and lambda(max). For rods and 'red' cones in the
adult frog retina, we find no significant difference in Ea between the two
pigments involved, although their lambda(max) values are very different. We also 
determined Ea for the rhodopsin in toad retinal rods--spectrally similar to frog 
rhodopsin but differing in amino-acid sequence--and found that it was
significantly higher. In addition, we estimated Ea for two pigments whose
lambda(max) difference was due only to a chromophore difference (A1 and A2
pigment, in adult and larval frog cones). Here Ea for A2 was lower than for A1.
Our results refute the idea of a necessary relation between lambda(max) and Ea,
but show that the A1 --> A2 chromophore substitution decreases Ea.

DOI: 10.1038/35003242 
PMID: 10646610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):216-20.

Cbl-b regulates the CD28 dependence of T-cell activation.

Chiang YJ(1), Kole HK, Brown K, Naramura M, Fukuhara S, Hu RJ, Jang IK, Gutkind
JS, Shevach E, Gu H.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Immunology, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Rockville, Maryland 20852, USA.

Whereas co-stimulation of the T-cell antigen receptor (TCR) and CD28 triggers
T-cell activation, stimulation of the TCR alone may result in an anergic state or
T-cell deletion, both possible mechanisms of tolerance induction. Here we show
that T cells that are deficient in the adaptor molecule Cbl-b (ref. 3) do not
require CD28 engagement for interleukin-2 production, and that the Cbl-b-null
mutation (Cbl-b(-/-)) fully restores T-cell-dependent antibody responses in
CD28-/- mice. The main TCR signalling pathways, such as tyrosine kinases Zap-70
and Lck, Ras/mitogen-activated kinases, phospholipase Cgamma-1 and Ca2+
mobilization, were not affected in Cbl-b(-/-) T cells. In contrast, the
activation of Vav, a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for Rac1/Rho/CDC42, was
significantly enhanced. Our findings indicate that Cbl-b may influence the CD28
dependence of T-cell activation by selectively suppressing TCR-mediated Vav
activation. Mice deficient in Cbl-b are highly susceptible to experimental
autoimmune encephalomyelitis, suggesting that the dysregulation of signalling
pathways modulated by Cbl-b may also contribute to human autoimmune diseases such
as multiple sclerosis.

DOI: 10.1038/35003235 
PMID: 10646609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


961. Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):211-6.

Negative regulation of lymphocyte activation and autoimmunity by the molecular
adaptor Cbl-b.

Bachmaier K(1), Krawczyk C, Kozieradzki I, Kong YY, Sasaki T, Oliveira-dos-Santos
A, Mariathasan S, Bouchard D, Wakeham A, Itie A, Le J, Ohashi PS, Sarosi I,
Nishina H, Lipkowitz S, Penninger JM.

Author information: 
(1)Amgen Institute, Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto,
Ontario, Canada.

The signalling thresholds of antigen receptors and co-stimulatory receptors
determine immunity or tolerance to self molecules. Changes in co-stimulatory
pathways can lead to enhanced activation of lymphocytes and autoimmunity, or the 
induction of clonal anergy. The molecular mechanisms that maintain
immunotolerance in vivo and integrate co-stimulatory signals with antigen
receptor signals in T and B lymphocytes are poorly understood. Members of the
Cbl/Sli family of molecular adaptors function downstream from growth factor and
antigen receptors. Here we show that gene-targeted mice lacking the adaptor Cbl-b
develop spontaneous autoimmunity characterized by auto-antibody production,
infiltration of activated T and B lymphocytes into multiple organs, and
parenchymal damage. Resting cbl-b(-/-) lymphocytes hyperproliferate upon antigen 
receptor stimulation, and cbl-b(-/-) T cells display specific hyperproduction of 
the T-cell growth factor interleukin-2, but not interferon-gamma or tumour
necrosis factor-alpha. Mutation of Cbl-b uncouples T-cell proliferation,
interleukin-2 production and phosphorylation of the GDP/GTP exchange factor Vav1 
from the requirement for CD28 co-stimulation. Cbl-b is thus a key regulator of
activation thresholds in mature lymphocytes and immunological tolerance and
autoimmunity.

DOI: 10.1038/35003228 
PMID: 10646608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):207-11.

Interferon-gamma elicits arteriosclerosis in the absence of leukocytes.

Tellides G(1), Tereb DA, Kirkiles-Smith NC, Kim RW, Wilson JH, Schechner JS,
Lorber MI, Pober JS.

Author information: 
(1)Interdepartmental Program in Vascular Biology and Transplantation, Boyer
Center for Molecular Medicine, and the Department of Surgery, Yale University
School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06510, USA. george.tellides@yale.edu

Atherosclerosis and post-transplant graft arteriosclerosis are both characterized
by expansion of the arterial intima as a result of the infiltration of
mononuclear leukocytes, the proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs)
and the accumulation of extracellular matrix. They are also associated with the
presence of the immunomodulatory cytokine interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma). Moreover,
in mouse models of atheroma formation or allogeneic transplantation, the
serological neutralization or genetic absence of IFN-gamma markedly reduces the
extent of intimal expansion. However, other studies have found that exogenous
IFN-gamma inhibits cultured VSMC proliferation and matrix synthesis, and reduces 
intimal expansion in response to mechanical injury. This discrepancy is generally
explained by the idea that IFN-gamma either directly activates macrophages, or,
by increasing antigen presentation, indirectly activates T cells within the
lesions of atherosclerosis and graft arteriosclerosis. These activated leukocytes
are thought to express the VSMC-activating cytokines and cell-surface molecules
that cause the observed arteriosclerotic responses. Here we have inserted pig and
human arteries into the aorta of immunodeficient mice, and we show that IFN-gamma
can induce arteriosclerotic changes in the absence of detectable immunocytes by
acting on VSMCs to potentiate growth-factor-induced mitogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/35003221 
PMID: 10646607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):203-7.

The major protein import receptor of plastids is essential for chloroplast
biogenesis.

Bauer J(1), Chen K, Hiltbunner A, Wehrli E, Eugster M, Schnell D, Kessler F.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Plant Sciences, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Zürich,
Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):148-9.

Light triggers the developmental programme in plants that leads to the production
of photosynthetically active chloroplasts from non-photosynthetic proplastids.
During this chloroplast biogenesis, the photosynthetic apparatus is rapidly
assembled, mostly from nuclear-encoded imported proteins, which are synthesized
in the cytosol as precursors with cleavable amino-terminal targeting sequences
called transit sequences. Protein translocon complexes at the outer (Toc complex)
and inner (Tic complex) envelope membranes recognize these transit sequences,
leading to the precursors being imported. The Toc complex in the pea consists of 
three major components, Toc75, Toc34 and Toc159 (formerly termed Toc86). Toc159, 
which is an integral membrane GTPase, functions as a transit-sequence receptor.
Here we show that Arabidopsis thaliana Toc159 (atToc159) is essential for the
biogenesis of chloroplasts. In an Arabidopsis mutant (ppi2) that lacks atToc159, 
photosynthetic proteins that are normally abundant are transcriptionally
repressed, and are found in much smaller amounts in the plastids, although ppi2
does not affect either the expression or the import of less abundant
non-photosynthetic plastid proteins. These findings indicate that atToc159 is
required for the quantitative import of photosynthetic proteins. Two proteins
that are related to atToc159 (atToc120 and atToc132) probably help to maintain
basal protein import in ppi2, and so constitute components of alternative,
atToc159-independent import pathways.

DOI: 10.1038/35003214 
PMID: 10646606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):199-203.

Uptake of apoptotic cells drives the growth of a pathogenic trypanosome in
macrophages.

Freire-de-Lima CG(1), Nascimento DO, Soares MB, Bozza PT, Castro-Faria-Neto HC,
de Mello FG, DosReis GA, Lopes MF.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Biofisica Carlos Chagas Filho, Universidade Federal do Rio de
Janeiro, RJ, Brazil. gdosreis@biof.ufrj.br

Erratum in
    Nature 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):904.

After apoptosis, phagocytes prevent inflammation and tissue damage by the uptake 
and removal of dead cells. In addition, apoptotic cells evoke an
anti-inflammatory response through macrophages. We have previously shown that
there is intense lymphocyte apoptosis in an experimental model of Chagas'
disease, a debilitating cardiac illness caused by the protozoan Trypanosoma
cruzi. Here we show that the interaction of apoptotic, but not necrotic T
lymphocytes with macrophages infected with T. cruzi fuels parasite growth in a
manner dependent on prostaglandins, transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta)
and polyamine biosynthesis. We show that the vitronectin receptor is critical, in
both apoptotic-cell cytoadherence and the induction of prostaglandin E2/TGF-beta 
release and ornithine decarboxylase activity in macrophages. A single injection
of apoptotic cells in infected mice increases parasitaemia, whereas treatment
with cyclooxygenase inhibitors almost completely ablates it in vivo. These
results suggest that continual lymphocyte apoptosis and phagocytosis of apoptotic
cells by macrophages have a role in parasite persistence in the host, and that
cyclooxygenase inhibitors have potential therapeutic application in the control
of parasite replication and spread in Chagas' disease.

DOI: 10.1038/35003208 
PMID: 10646605  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):196-9.

A constitutively open potassium channel formed by KCNQ1 and KCNE3.

Schroeder BC(1), Waldegger S, Fehr S, Bleich M, Warth R, Greger R, Jentsch TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Zentrum für Molekulare Neurobiologie Hamburg, Hamburg University, Germany.

Mutations in all four known KCNQ potassium channel alpha-subunit genes lead to
human diseases. KCNQ1 (KvLQT1) interacts with the beta-subunit KCNE1 (IsK, minK) 
to form the slow, depolarization-activated potassium current I(Ks) that is
affected in some forms of cardiac arrhythmia. Here we show that the novel
beta-subunit KCNE3 markedly changes KCNQ1 properties to yield currents that are
nearly instantaneous and depend linearly on voltage. It also suppresses the
currents of KCNQ4 and HERG potassium channels. In the intestine, KCNQ1 and KCNE3 
messenger RNAs colocalized in crypt cells. This localization and the
pharmacology, voltage-dependence and stimulation by cyclic AMP of KCNQ1/KCNE3
currents indicate that these proteins may assemble to form the potassium channel 
that is important for cyclic AMP-stimulated intestinal chloride secretion and
that is involved in secretory diarrhoea and cystic fibrosis.

DOI: 10.1038/35003200 
PMID: 10646604  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):192-5.

Human cerebellar activity reflecting an acquired internal model of a new tool.

Imamizu H(1), Miyauchi S, Tamada T, Sasaki Y, Takino R, Pütz B, Yoshioka T,
Kawato M.

Author information: 
(1)JST/ERATO Kawato Dynamic Brain Project, Soraku-gun, Kyoto, Japan.
imamizu@erato.atr.co.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):153-4.

Theories of motor control postulate that the brain uses internal models of the
body to control movements accurately. Internal models are neural representations 
of how, for instance, the arm would respond to a neural command, given its
current position and velocity. Previous studies have shown that the cerebellar
cortex can acquire internal models through motor learning. Because the human
cerebellum is involved in higher cognitive function as well as in motor control, 
we propose a coherent computational theory in which the phylogenetically newer
part of the cerebellum similarly acquires internal models of objects in the
external world. While human subjects learned to use a new tool (a computer mouse 
with a novel rotational transformation), cerebellar activity was measured by
functional magnetic resonance imaging. As predicted by our theory, two types of
activity were observed. One was spread over wide areas of the cerebellum and was 
precisely proportional to the error signal that guides the acquisition of
internal models during learning. The other was confined to the area near the
posterior superior fissure and remained even after learning, when the error
levels had been equalized, thus probably reflecting an acquired internal model of
the new tool.

DOI: 10.1038/35003194 
PMID: 10646603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):188-92.

Molecular evidence regarding the origin of echolocation and flight in bats.

Teeling EC(1), Scally M, Kao DJ, Romagnoli ML, Springer MS, Stanhope MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Queen's University of Belfast, Biology and Biochemistry, UK.

Bats (order Chiroptera) are one of the few orders of mammals that echolocate and 
the only group with the capacity for powered flight. The order is subdivided into
Microchiroptera and Megachiroptera, with an array of characteristics defining
each group, including complex laryngeal echolocation systems in microbats and
enhanced visual acuity in megabats. The respective monophylies of the two
suborders have been tacitly assumed, although microbat monophyly is
uncorroborated by molecular data. Here we present a phylogenetic analysis of bat 
relationships using DNA sequence data from four nuclear genes and three
mitochondrial genes (total of 8,230 base pairs), indicating that microbat
families in the superfamily Rhinolophoidea are more closely related to megabats
than they are to other microbats. This implies that echolocation systems either
evolved independently in rhinolophoids and other microbats or were lost in the
evolution of megabats. Our data also reject flying lemur (order Dermoptera) as
the bat sister group, indicating that presumed shared derived characters for
flying lemurs and bats are convergent features that evolved in association with
gliding and flight, respectively.

DOI: 10.1038/35003188 
PMID: 10646602  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):185-8.

The most primitive osteichthyan braincase?

Basden AM(1), Young GC, Coates MI, Ritchie A.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Ecostratigraphy and Palaeobiology, Department of Earth and
Planetary Sciences, Macquarie University, New South Wales, Australia.
abasden@laurel.ocs.mq.edu.au

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):152-3.

Most living vertebrates, from teleosts to tetrapods, are osteichthyans (bony
fishes), but the origin of this major group is poorly understood. The
actinopterygians (ray-finned bony fishes) are the most successful living
vertebrates in terms of diversity. They appear in the fossil record in the Late
Silurian but are poorly known before the Late Devonian. Here we report the
discovery of the oldest and most primitive actinopterygian-like osteichthyan
braincase known, from 400-million-year-old limestone in southeastern Australia.
This specimen displays previously unknown primitive conditions, in particular, an
opening for a cartilaginous eyestalk. It provides an important and unique
counterpart to the similarly aged and recently described Psarolepis from China
and Vietnam. The contrasting features of these specimens, and the unusual anatomy
of the new specimen in particular, provide new insights into anatomical
conditions close to the evolutionary radiation of all modern osteichthyan groups.

DOI: 10.1038/35003183 
PMID: 10646601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):182-4.

Osmotic generation of 'anomalous' fluid pressures in geological environments

Neuzil CE(1).

Author information: 
(1)US Geologic Survey, Reston, Virginia 20192, USA. ceneuzil@usgs.gov

Osmotic pressures are generated by differences in chemical potential of a
solution across a membrane. But whether osmosis can have a significant effect on 
the pressure of fluids in geological environments has been controversial, because
the membrane properties of geological media are poorly understood. 'Anomalous'
pressures--large departures from hydrostatic pressure that are not explicable in 
terms of topographic or fluid-density effects--are widely found in geological
settings, and are commonly considered to result from processes that alter the
pore or fluid volume, which in turn implies crustal changes happening at a rate
too slow to observe directly. Yet if osmosis can explain some anomalies, there is
no need to invoke such dynamic geological processes in those cases. Here I report
results of a nine-year in situ measurement of fluid pressures and solute
concentrations in shale that are consistent with the generation of large (up to
20 MPa) osmotic-pressure anomalies which could persist for tens of millions of
years. Osmotic pressures of this magnitude and duration can explain many of the
pressure anomalies observed in geological settings. They require, however, small 
shale porosity and large contrasts in the amount of dissolved solids in the pore 
waters--criteria that may help to distinguish between osmotic and crustal-dynamic
origins of anomalous pressures.

DOI: 10.1038/35003174 
PMID: 10646600 


970. Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):179-82.

Evidence for enhanced mixing over rough topography in the abyssal ocean

Ledwell JR(1), Montgomery ET, Polzin KL, St. Laurent LC, Schmitt RW, Toole JM.

Author information: 
(1)Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Massachusetts 02543, USA.
jledwell@whoi.edu

The overturning circulation of the ocean plays an important role in modulating
the Earth's climate. But whereas the mechanisms for the vertical transport of
water into the deep ocean--deep water formation at high latitudes--and horizontal
transport in ocean currents have been largely identified, it is not clear how the
compensating vertical transport of water from the depths to the surface is
accomplished. Turbulent mixing across surfaces of constant density is the only
viable mechanism for reducing the density of the water and enabling it to rise.
However, measurements of the internal wave field, the main source of energy for
mixing, and of turbulent dissipation rates, have typically implied diffusivities 
across surfaces of equal density of only approximately 0.1 cm2 s(-1), too small
to account for the return flow. Here we report measurements of tracer dispersion 
and turbulent energy dissipation in the Brazil basin that reveal diffusivities of
2-4 cm2 s(-1) at a depth of 500 m above abyssal hills on the flank of the
Mid-Atlantic Ridge, and approximately 10 cm2 s(-1) nearer the bottom. This amount
of mixing, probably driven by breaking internal waves that are generated by tidal
currents flowing over the rough bathymetry, may be large enough to close the
buoyancy budget for the Brazil basin and suggests a mechanism for closing the
global overturning circulation.

DOI: 10.1038/35003164 
PMID: 10646599 


971. Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):175-9.

DNA computing on surfaces.

Liu Q(1), Wang L, Frutos AG, Condon AE, Corn RM, Smith LM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Wisconsin, Madison 53706, USA.

DNA computing was proposed as a means of solving a class of intractable
computational problems in which the computing time can grow exponentially with
problem size (the 'NP-complete' or non-deterministic polynomial time complete
problems). The principle of the technique has been demonstrated experimentally
for a simple example of the hamiltonian path problem (in this case, finding an
airline flight path between several cities, such that each city is visited only
once). DNA computational approaches to the solution of other problems have also
been investigated. One technique involves the immobilization and manipulation of 
combinatorial mixtures of DNA on a support. A set of DNA molecules encoding all
candidate solutions to the computational problem of interest is synthesized and
attached to the surface. Successive cycles of hybridization operations and
exonuclease digestion are used to identify and eliminate those members of the set
that are not solutions. Upon completion of all the multistep cycles, the solution
to the computational problem is identified using a polymerase chain reaction to
amplify the remaining molecules, which are then hybridized to an addressed array.
The advantages of this approach are its scalability and potential to be automated
(the use of solid-phase formats simplifies the complex repetitive chemical
processes, as has been demonstrated in DNA and protein synthesis). Here we report
the use of this method to solve a NP-complete problem. We consider a small
example of the satisfiability problem (SAT), in which the values of a set of
boolean variables satisfying certain logical constraints are determined.

DOI: 10.1038/35003155 
PMID: 10646598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):173-5.

Nanoscopic channel lattices with controlled anisotropic wetting

Gleiche M(1), Chi LF, Fuchs H.

Author information: 
(1)Physikalisches Institut, Westfalische Wilhelms-Universitat, Munster, Germany.

Engineered microscopic surface structures allow local control of physical surface
properties such as adhesion, friction and wettability. These properties are
related both to molecular interactions and the surface topology--for example,
selective adsorption and molecular recognition capabilities require controlled
anisotropy in the surface properties. Chemistry with extremely small amounts of
material has become possible using liquid-guiding channels of sub-micrometre
dimensions. Laterally structured surfaces with differing wettabilities may be
produced using various techniques, such as microcontact printing, micromachining,
photolithography and vapour deposition. Another strategy for introducing
anisotropic texture is based on the use of the intrinsic material properties of
stretched ultrathin polymer coatings. Here we present a fast and simple method to
generate extended patterned surfaces with controlled wetting properties on the
nanometre scale, without any lithographic processes. The technique utilizes
wetting instabilities that occur when monomolecular layers are transferred onto a
solid substrate. The modified surfaces can be used as templates for patterning a 
wide variety of molecules and nanoclusters into approximately parallel channels, 
with a spatial density of up to 20,000 cm(-1). We demonstrate the transport
properties of these channels for attolitre quantities of liquid.

DOI: 10.1038/35003149 
PMID: 10646597 


973. Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):170-3.

A first-order liquid-liquid phase transition in phosphorus

Katayama Y(1), Mizutani T, Utsumi W, Shimomura O, Yamakata M, Funakoshi K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Synchrotron Radiation Research, Japan Atomic Energy Research
Institute, Sayo, Hyogo. katayama@spring8.or.jp

First-order structural phase transitions are common in crystalline solids,
whereas first-order liquid-liquid phase transitions (that is, transitions between
two distinct liquid forms with different density and entropy) are exceedingly
rare in pure substances. But recent theoretical and experimental studies have
shown evidence for such a transition in several materials, including supercooled 
water and liquid carbon. Here we report an in situ X-ray diffraction observation 
of a liquid-liquid transition in phosphorus, involving an abrupt,
pressure-induced structural change between two distinct liquid forms. In addition
to a known form of liquid phosphorus--a molecular liquid comprising tetrahedral
P4 molecules--we have found a polymeric form at pressures above 1 GPa. Changing
the pressure results in a reversible transformation from the low-pressure
molecular form into the high-pressure polymeric form. The transformation is sharp
and rapid, occurring within a few minutes over a pressure range of less than 0.02
GPa. During the transformation, the two forms of liquid coexist. These features
are strongly suggestive of a first-order liquid-liquid phase transition.

DOI: 10.1038/35003143 
PMID: 10646596 


974. Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):166-70.

Measurement of the spatial coherence of a trapped Bose gas at the phase
transition

Bloch I I(1), Hansch TW, Esslinger T.

Author information: 
(1)Sektion Physik, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitat, Munich, Germany.

The experimental realization of Bose-Einstein condensates of dilute gases has
allowed investigations of fundamental concepts in quantum mechanics at ultra-low 
temperatures, such as wave-like behaviour and interference phenomena. The
formation of an interference pattern depends fundamentally on the phase coherence
of a system; the latter may be quantified by the spatial correlation function.
Phase coherence over a long range is the essential factor underlying
Bose-Einstein condensation and related macroscopic quantum phenomena, such as
superconductivity and superfluidity. Here we report a direct measurement of the
phase coherence properties of a weakly interacting Bose gas of rubidium atoms.
Effectively, we create a double slit for magnetically trapped atoms using a radio
wave field with two frequency components. The correlation function of the system 
is determined by evaluating the interference pattern of two matter waves
originating from the spatially separated 'slit' regions of the trapped gas. Above
the critical temperature for Bose-Einstein condensation, the correlation function
shows a rapid gaussian decay, as expected for a thermal gas. Below the critical
temperature, the correlation function has a different shape: a slow decay towards
a plateau is observed, indicating the long-range phase coherence of the
condensate fraction.

DOI: 10.1038/35003132 
PMID: 10646595 


975. Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):165-6.

A reduced estimate of the number of kilometre-sized near-Earth asteroids.

Rabinowitz D(1), Helin E, Lawrence K, Pravdo S.

Author information: 
(1)Yale University Physics Department, New Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA.
david.rabinowitz@yale.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):145, 147-8.

Near-Earth asteroids are small (diameters < 10 km), rocky bodies with orbits that
approach that of the Earth (they come within 1.3 AU of the Sun). Most have a
chance of approximately 0.5% of colliding with the Earth in the next million
years. The total number of such bodies with diameters > 1 km has been estimated
to be in the range 1,000-2,000, which translates to an approximately 1% chance of
a catastrophic collision with the Earth in the next millennium. These numbers
are, however, poorly constrained because of the limitations of previous searches 
using photographic plates. (One kilometre is below the size of a body whose
impact on the Earth would produce global effects.) Here we report an analysis of 
our survey for near-Earth asteroids that uses improved detection technologies. We
find that the total number of asteroids with diameters > 1 km is about half the
earlier estimates. At the current rate of discovery of near-Earth asteroids, 90% 
will probably have been detected within the next 20 years.

DOI: 10.1038/35003128 
PMID: 10646594  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):159-64.

MRT-2 checkpoint protein is required for germline immortality and telomere
replication in C. elegans.

Ahmed S(1), Hodgkin J.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, UK. shawn@mrc-lmb.cam.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jan 13;403(6766):149, 151.

The germ line is an immortal cell lineage that is passed indefinitely from one
generation to the next. To identify the genes that are required for germline
immortality, we isolated Caenorhabditis elegans mutants with mortal germ
lines--worms that can reproduce for several healthy generations but eventually
become sterile. One of these mortal germline (mrt) mutants, mrt-2, exhibits
progressive telomere shortening and accumulates end-to-end chromosome fusions in 
later generations, indicating that the MRT-2 protein is required for telomere
replication. In addition, the germ line of mrt-2 is hypersensitive to X-rays and 
to transposon activity. Therefore, mrt-2 has defects in responding both to
damaged DNA and to normal double-strand breaks present at telomeres. mrt-2
encodes a homologue of a checkpoint gene that is required to sense DNA damage in 
yeast. These results indicate that telomeres may be identified as a type of DNA
damage and then repaired by the telomere-replication enzyme telomerase.

DOI: 10.1038/35003120 
PMID: 10646593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):112-5.

Three-dimensional structure of the ion-coupled transport protein NhaA.

Williams KA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Structural Biology, Max Planck Institute of Biophysics,
Frankfurt/Main, Germany. williams@biophys.mpg.de

Ion-coupled membrane-transport proteins, or secondary transporters, comprise a
diverse and abundant group of membrane proteins that are found in all organisms. 
These proteins facilitate solute accumulation and toxin removal against
concentration gradients using energy supplied by ion gradients across membranes. 
NhaA is a Na+/H+ antiporter of relative molecular mass 42,000, which is found in 
the inner membrane of Escherichia coli, and which has been cloned and
characterized. NhaA uses the H+ electrochemical gradient to expel Na+ from the
cytoplasm, and functions primarily in the adaptation to high salinity at alkaline
pH. Most secondary transporters, including NhaA, are predicted to have 12
transmembrane helices. Here we report the structure of NhaA, at 7 A resolution in
the membrane plane and at 14 A vertical resolution, determined from
two-dimensional crystals using electron cryo-microscopy. The three-dimensional
map of NhaA reveals 12 tilted, bilayer-spanning helices. A roughly linear
arrangement of six helices is adjacent to a compact bundle of six helices, with
the density for one helix in the bundle not continuous through the membrane. The 
molecular organization of NhaA represents a new membrane-protein structural motif
and offers the first insights into the architecture of an ion-coupled transport
protein.

DOI: 10.1038/47534 
PMID: 10638764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):108-12.

Nuclear pore complexes in the organization of silent telomeric chromatin.

Galy V(1), Olivo-Marin JC, Scherthan H, Doye V, Rascalou N, Nehrbass U.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Biologie Cellulaire du Noyau, Institut Pasteur, CNRS URA 1773, 
Paris, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):34-5.

The functional regulation of chromatin is closely related to its spatial
organization within the nucleus. In yeast, perinuclear chromatin domains
constitute areas of transcriptional repression. These 'silent' domains are
defined by the presence of perinuclear telomere clusters. The only protein found 
to be involved in the peripheral localization of telomeres is Yku70/Yku80. This
conserved heterodimer can bind telomeres and functions in both repair of DNA
double-strand breaks and telomere maintenance. These findings, however, do not
address the underlying structural basis of perinuclear silent domains. Here we
show that nuclear-pore-complex extensions formed by the conserved TPR homologues 
Mlp1 and Mlp2 are responsible for the structural and functional organization of
perinuclear chromatin. Loss of MLP2 results in a severe deficiency in the repair 
of double-strand breaks. Furthermore, double deletion of MLP1 and MLP2 disrupts
the clustering of perinuclear telomeres and releases telomeric gene repression.
These effects are probably mediated through the interaction with Yku70. Mlp2
physically tethers Yku70 to the nuclear periphery, thus forming a link between
chromatin and the nuclear envelope. We show, moreover, that this structural link 
is docked to nuclear-pore complexes through a cleavable nucleoporin, Nup145. We
propose that, through these interactions, nuclear-pore complexes organize a
nuclear subdomain that is intimately involved in the regulation of chromatin
metabolism.

DOI: 10.1038/47528 
PMID: 10638763  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):103-8.

Anti-inflammatory cyclopentenone prostaglandins are direct inhibitors of IkappaB 
kinase.

Rossi A(1), Kapahi P, Natoli G, Takahashi T, Chen Y, Karin M, Santoro MG.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Experimental Medicine, Italian National Council of Research,
University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy.

NF-kappaB is a critical activator of genes involved in inflammation and immunity.
Pro-inflammatory cytokines activate the IkappaB kinase (IKK) complex that
phosphorylates the NF-kappaB inhibitors, triggering their conjugation with
ubiquitin and subsequent degradation. Freed NF-kappaB dimers translocate to the
nucleus and induce target genes, including the one for cyclo-oxygenase 2 (COX2), 
which catalyses the synthesis of pro-inflammatory prostaglandins, in particular
PGE. At late stages of inflammatory episodes, however, COX2 directs the synthesis
of anti-inflammatory cyclopentenone prostaglandins, suggesting a role for these
molecules in the resolution of inflammation. Cyclopentenone prostaglandins have
been suggested to exert anti-inflammatory activity through the activation of
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma. Here we demonstrate a novel
mechanism of antiinflammatory activity which is based on the direct inhibition
and modification of the IKKbeta subunit of IKK. As IKKbeta is responsible for the
activation of NF-kappaB by pro-inflammatory stimuli, our findings explain how
cyclopentenone prostaglandins function and can be used to improve the utility of 
COX2 inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1038/47520 
PMID: 10638762  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):98-103.

Caspase-12 mediates endoplasmic-reticulum-specific apoptosis and cytotoxicity by 
amyloid-beta.

Nakagawa T(1), Zhu H, Morishima N, Li E, Xu J, Yankner BA, Yuan J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2013 Jul;14(7):404.

Apoptosis, or cellular suicide, is important for normal development and tissue
homeostasis, but too much or too little apoptosis can also cause disease. The
family of cysteine proteases, the so- called caspases, are critical mediators of 
programmed cell death, and thus far 14 family members have been identified. Some 
of these, such as caspase-8, mediate signal transduction downstream of death
receptors located on the plasma membrane. Others, such as caspase-9, mediate
apoptotic signals after mitochondrial damage. Stress in the endoplasmic reticulum
(ER) can also result in apoptosis. Here we show that caspase-12 is localized to
the ER and activated by ER stress, including disruption of ER calcium homeostasis
and accumulation of excess proteins in ER, but not by membrane- or
mitochondrial-targeted apoptotic signals. Mice that are deficient in caspase-12
are resistant to ER stress-induced apoptosis, but their cells undergo apoptosis
in response to other death stimuli. Furthermore, we show that
caspase-12-deficient cortical neurons are defective in apoptosis induced by
amyloid-beta protein but not by staurosporine or trophic factor deprivation.
Thus, caspase-12 mediates an ER-specific apoptosis pathway and may contribute to 
amyloid-beta neurotoxicity.

DOI: 10.1038/47513 
PMID: 10638761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):93-8.

Calcium signalling in the guidance of nerve growth by netrin-1.

Hong K(1), Nishiyama M, Henley J, Tessier-Lavigne M, Poo M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California at San Diego, La Jolla
92093-0357, USA.

Pathfinding by growing axons in the developing nervous system is guided by
diffusible or bound factors that attract or repel the axonal growth cone. The
cytoplasmic signalling mechanisms that trigger the responses of the growth cone
to guidance factors are mostly unknown. Previous studies have shown that the
level and temporal patterns of cytoplasmic Ca2+ can regulate the rate of
growth-cone extension in vitro and in vivo. Here we report that Ca2+ also
mediates the turning behaviour of the growth cones of cultured Xenopus neurons
that are induced by an extracellular gradient of netrin-1, an established
diffusible guidance factor in vivo. The netrin-1-induced turning response depends
on Ca2+ influx through plasma membrane Ca2+ channels, as well as Ca2+-induced
Ca2+ release from cytoplasmic stores. Reduction of Ca2+ signals by blocking
either of these two Ca2+ sources converted the netrin-1-induced response from
attraction to repulsion. Activation of Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release from internal
stores with a gradient of ryanodine in the absence of netrin-1 was sufficient to 
trigger either attractive or repulsive responses, depending on the ryanodine
concentration used. These results support the model that cytoplasmic Ca2+ signals
mediate growth-cone guidance by netrin-1, and different patterns of Ca2+
elevation trigger attractive and repulsive turning responses.

DOI: 10.1038/47507 
PMID: 10638760  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):89-93.

Turning of nerve growth cones induced by localized increases in intracellular
calcium ions.

Zheng JQ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Cell Biology, University of Medicine and
Dentistry of New Jersey, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Piscataway 08854,
USA. zhengiq@umdnj.edu

Guidance of developing axons involves turning of the motile tip, the growth cone,
in response to a variety of extracellular cues. Little is known about the
intracellular mechanism by which the directional signal is transduced. Ca2+ is a 
key second messenger in growth cone extension and has been implicated in
growth-cone turning. Here I report that a direct, spatially restricted elevation 
of intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) on one side of the growth cone by
focal laser-induced photolysis (FLIP) of caged Ca2+ consistently induced turning 
of the growth cone to the side with elevated [Ca2+]i (attraction). Furthermore,
when the resting [Ca2+]i at the growth cone was decreased by the removal of
extracellular Ca2+, the same focal elevation of [Ca2+]i by FLIP induced
repulsion. These results provide direct evidence that a localized Ca2+ signal in 
the growth cone can provide the intracellular directional cue for extension and
is sufficient to initiate both attraction and repulsion. By integrating local and
global Ca2+ signals, a growth cone could thus generate different turning
responses under different environmental conditions during guidance.

DOI: 10.1038/47501 
PMID: 10638759  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):86-9.

Reduced vas deferens contraction and male infertility in mice lacking P2X1
receptors.

Mulryan K(1), Gitterman DP, Lewis CJ, Vial C, Leckie BJ, Cobb AL, Brown JE,
Conley EC, Buell G, Pritchard CA, Evans RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Physiology & Pharmacology, University of Leicester, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):35.

P2X1 receptors for ATP are ligand-gated cation channels, present on many
excitable cells including vas deferens smooth muscle cells. A substantial
component of the contractile response of the vas deferens to sympathetic nerve
stimulation, which propels sperm into the ejaculate, is mediated through P2X
receptors. Here we show that male fertility is reduced by approximately 90% in
mice with a targeted deletion of the P2X1 receptor gene. Male mice copulate
normally--reduced fertility results from a reduction of sperm in the ejaculate
and not from sperm dysfunction. Female mice and heterozygote mice are unaffected.
In P2X1-receptor-deficient mice, contraction of the vas deferens to sympathetic
nerve stimulation is reduced by up to 60% and responses to P2X receptor agonists 
are abolished. These results show that P2X1 receptors are essential for normal
male reproductive function and suggest that the development of selective P2X1
receptor antagonists may provide an effective non-hormonal male contraceptive
pill. Also, agents that potentiate the actions of ATP at P2X1 receptors may be
useful in the treatment of male infertility.

DOI: 10.1038/47495 
PMID: 10638758  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):84-6.

Dynamic biogeography and conservation of endangered species.

Channell R(1), Lomolino MV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Fort Hays State University, Hays, Kansas
67601, USA. Rchannel@FHSU.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):26-7, 29.

As one moves from the core to the periphery of a species' geographical range,
populations occupy less favourable habitats and exhibit lower and more variable
densities. Populations along the periphery of the range tend to be more
fragmented and, as a result, are less likely to receive immigrants from other
populations. A population's probability of extinction is directly correlated with
its variability and inversely correlated with density and immigration rate. This 
has led to the prediction that, when a species becomes endangered, its
geographical range should contract inwards, with the core populations persisting 
until the final stages of decline. Convinced by these logical but untested
deductions, conservation biologists and wildlife managers have been instructed to
avoid the range periphery when planning conservation strategies or allocating
resources for endangered species. We have analysed range contraction in 245
species from a broad range of taxonomic groups and geographical regions. Here we 
report that observed patterns of range contraction do not support the above
predictions and that most species examined persist in the periphery of their
historical geographical ranges.

DOI: 10.1038/47487 
PMID: 10638757  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):80-4.

Mortality of sea lions along the central California coast linked to a toxic
diatom bloom.

Scholin CA(1), Gulland F, Doucette GJ, Benson S, Busman M, Chavez FP, Cordaro J, 
DeLong R, De Vogelaere A, Harvey J, Haulena M, Lefebvre K, Lipscomb T, Loscutoff 
S, Lowenstine LJ, Marin R 3rd, Miller PE, McLellan WA, Moeller PD, Powell CL,
Rowles T, Silvagni P, Silver M, Spraker T, Trainer V, Van Dolah FM.

Author information: 
(1)Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute, California 95039, USA.
scholin@mbari.org

Over 400 California sea lions (Zalophus californianus) died and many others
displayed signs of neurological dysfunction along the central California coast
during May and June 1998. A bloom of Pseudo-nitzschia australis (diatom) was
observed in the Monterey Bay region during the same period. This bloom was
associated with production of domoic acid (DA), a neurotoxin that was also
detected in planktivorous fish, including the northern anchovy (Engraulis
mordax), and in sea lion body fluids. These and other concurrent observations
demonstrate the trophic transfer of DA resulting in marine mammal mortality. In
contrast to fish, blue mussels (Mytilus edulus) collected during the DA outbreak 
contained no DA or only trace amounts. Such findings reveal that monitoring of
mussel toxicity alone does not necessarily provide adequate warning of DA
entering the food web at levels sufficient to harm marine wildlife and perhaps
humans.

DOI: 10.1038/47481 
PMID: 10638756  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):77-80.

The Santa Barbara Basin is a symbiosis oasis.

Bernhard JM(1), Buck KR, Farmer MA, Bowser SS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Health Sciences, School of Public Health,
University of South Carolina, Columbia 29208, USA. jmbernha@sph.sc.edu

It is generally agreed that the origin and initial diversification of Eucarya
occurred in the late Archaean or Proterozoic Eons when atmospheric oxygen levels 
were low and the risk of DNA damage due to ultraviolet radiation was high.
Because deep water provides refuge against ultraviolet radiation and early
eukaryotes may have been aerotolerant anaerobes, deep-water dysoxic environments 
are likely settings for primeval eukaryotic diversification. Fossil evidence
shows that deep-sea microbial mats, possibly of sulphur bacteria similar to
Beggiatoa, existed during that time. Here we report on the eukaryotic community
of a modern analogue, the Santa Barbara Basin (California, USA). The Beggiatoa
mats of these severely dysoxic and sulphidic sediments support a surprisingly
abundant protistan and metazoan meiofaunal community, most members of which
harbour prokaryotic symbionts. Many of these taxa are new to science, and both
microaerophilic and anaerobic taxa appear to be represented. Compared with nearby
aerated sites, the Santa Barbara Basin is a 'symbiosis oasis' offering a new
source of organisms for testing symbiosis hypotheses of eukaryogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/47476 
PMID: 10638755  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):74-7.

A highly unsaturated fatty acid predicts carbon transfer between primary
producers and consumers.

Müller-Navarra DC(1), Brett MT, Liston AM, Goldman CR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Science and Policy, University of California,
Davis 95616, USA. dcnavarra@ucdavis.edu

The factors that regulate energy transfer between primary producers and consumers
in aquatic ecosystems have been investigated for more than 50 years. Among all
levels of the food web (plants, herbivores, carnivores), the plant-animal
interface is the most variable and least predictable link. In hypereutrophic
lakes, for example, biomass and energy transfer is often inhibited at the
phytoplankton-zooplankton link, resulting in an accumulation of phytoplankton
biomass instead of sustaining production at higher trophic levels, such as fish. 
Accumulation of phytoplankton (especially cyanobacteria) results in severe
deterioration of water quality, with detrimental effects on the health of humans 
and domestic animals, and diminished recreational value of water bodies. We show 
here that low transfer efficiencies between primary producers and consumers
during cyanobacteria bloom conditions are related to low relative
eicosapentaenoic acid (20:5omega3) content of the primary producer community.
Zooplankton growth and egg production were strongly related to the primary
producer 20:5omega3 to carbon ratio. This indicates that limitation of
zooplankton production by this essential fatty acid is of central importance at
the pelagic producer-consumer interface.

DOI: 10.1038/47469 
PMID: 10638754  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):71-4.

Channelized fluid flow in oceanic crust reconciles heat-flow and permeability
data

Fisher AT(1), Becker K.

Author information: 
(1)Earth Sciences Department, University of California, Santa Cruz 95064, USA.
afisher@es.ucsc.edu

Hydrothermal fluid circulation within the sea floor profoundly influences the
physical, chemical and biological state of the crust and the oceans. Circulation 
within ridge flanks (in crust more than 1 Myr old) results in greater heat loss
and fluid flux than that at ridge crests and persists for millions of years,
thereby altering the composition of the crust and overlying ocean. Fluid flow in 
oceanic crust is, however, limited by the extent and nature of the rock's
permeability. Here we demonstrate that the global data set of borehole
permeability measurements in uppermost oceanic crust defines a trend with age
that is consistent with changes in seismic velocity. This trend-which indicates
that fluid flow should be greatly reduced in crust older than a few million
years-would appear to be inconsistent with heat-flow observations, which on
average indicate significant advective heat loss in crust up to 65 Myr old. But
our calculations, based on a lateral flow model, suggest that regional-scale
permeabilities are much higher than have been measured in boreholes. These
results can be reconciled if most of the fluid flow in the upper crust is
channelized through a small volume of rock, influencing the geometry of
convection and the nature of fluid-rock interaction.

DOI: 10.1038/47463 
PMID: 10638753 


989. Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):68-71.

Forecasting Andean rainfall and crop yield from the influence of El Nino on
Pleiades visibility

Orlove BS(1), Chiang JC, Cane MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Science and Policy, University of California,
Davis 95616, USA. bsorlove@ucdavis.edu

Farmers in drought-prone regions of Andean South America have historically made
observations of changes in the apparent brightness of stars in the Pleiades
around the time of the southern winter solstice in order to forecast interannual 
variations in summer rainfall and in autumn harvests. They moderate the effect of
reduced rainfall by adjusting the planting dates of potatoes, their most
important crop. Here we use data on cloud cover and water vapour from satellite
imagery, agronomic data from the Andean altiplano and an index of El Nino
variability to analyse this forecasting method. We find that poor visibility of
the Pleiades in June-caused by an increase in subvisual high cirrus clouds-is
indicative of an El Nino year, which is usually linked to reduced rainfall during
the growing season several months later. Our results suggest that this
centuries-old method of seasonal rainfall forecasting may be based on a simple
indicator of El Nino variability.

DOI: 10.1038/47456 
PMID: 10638752 


990. Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):65-7.

Reverse microemulsion synthesis of nanostructured complex oxides for catalytic
combustion

Zarur AJ(1), Ying JY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge 02139-4307, USA.

Catalysts play an important role in many industrial processes, but their use in
high-temperature applications-such as energy generation through natural gas
combustion, steam reforming and the partial oxidation of hydrocarbons to produce 
feedstock chemicals--is problematic. The need for catalytic materials that remain
stable and active over long periods at high operation temperatures, often in the 
presence of deactivating or even poisoning compounds, presents a challenge. For
example, catalytic methane combustion, which generates power with reduced
greenhouse-gas and nitrogen-oxide emissions, is limited by the availability of
catalysts that are sufficiently active at low temperatures for start-up and are
then able to sustain activity and mechanical integrity at flame temperatures as
high as 1,300 degrees C. Here we use sol-gel processing in reverse microemulsions
to produce discrete barium hexa-aluminate nanoparticles that display excellent
methane combustion activity, owing to their high surface area, high thermal
stability and the ultrahigh dispersion of cerium oxide on the their surfaces. Our
synthesis method provides a general route to the production of a wide range of
thermally stable nanostructured composite materials with large surface-to-volume 
ratios and an ultrahigh component dispersion that gives rise to synergistic
chemical and electronic effects, thus paving the way to the development of
catalysts suitable for high-temperature industrial applications.

DOI: 10.1038/47450 
PMID: 10638751 


991. Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):62-4.

Magnetic trapping of neutrons

Huffman PR(1), Brome CR, Butterworth JS, Coakley KJ, Dewey MS, Dzhosyuk SN, Golub
R, Greene GL, Habicht K, Lamoreaux SK, Mattoni CE, McKinsey DN, Wietfeldt FE,
Doyle JM.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. paul.huffman@nist.gov

Accurate measurement of the lifetime of the neutron (which is unstable to beta
decay) is important for understanding the weak nuclear force and the creation of 
matter during the Big Bang. Previous measurements of the neutron lifetime have
mainly been limited by certain systematic errors; however, these could in
principle be avoided by performing measurements on neutrons stored in a magnetic 
trap. Neutral-particle and charged-particle traps are widely used for studying
both composite and elementary particles, because they allow long interaction
times and isolation of particles from perturbing environments. Here we report the
magnetic trapping of neutrons. The trapping region is filled with superfluid 4He,
which is used to load neutrons into the trap and as a scintillator to detect
their decay. Neutrons in the trap have a lifetime of 750(+330)(-200) seconds,
mainly limited by their beta decay rather than trap losses. Our experiment
verifies theoretical predictions regarding the loading process and magnetic
trapping of neutrons. Further refinement of this method should lead to improved
precision in the neutron lifetime measurement.

DOI: 10.1038/47444 
PMID: 10638750 


992. Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):59-61.

Tunnelling between the edges of two lateral quantum Hall systems

Kang W(1), Stormer HL, Pfeiffer LN, Baldwin KW, West KW.

Author information: 
(1)James Franck Institute and Department of Physics, University of Chicago,
Illinois 60637, USA. wkang@rainbow.uchicago.edu

The edge of a two-dimensional electron system in a magnetic field consists of
one-dimensional channels that arise from the confining electric field at the edge
of the system. The crossed electric and magnetic fields cause electrons to drift 
parallel to the sample boundary, creating a chiral current that travels along the
edge in only one direction. In an ideal two-dimensional electron system in the
quantum Hall regime, all the current flows along the edge. Quantization of the
Hall resistance arises from occupation of N one-dimensional edge channels, each
contributing a conductance of e2/h. Here we report differential conductance
measurements, in the integer quantum Hall regime, of tunnelling between the edges
of a pair of two-dimensional electron systems that are separated by an atomically
precise, high-quality, tunnel barrier. The resultant interaction between the edge
states leads to the formation of new energy gaps and an intriguing dispersion
relation for electrons travelling along the barrier: for example, we see a
persistent conductance peak at zero bias voltage and an absence of tunnelling
features due to electron spin. These features are unexpected and are not
consistent with a model of weakly interacting edge states. Remnant disorder along
the barrier and charge screening may each play a role, although detailed
numerical studies will be required to elucidate these effects.

DOI: 10.1038/47436 
PMID: 10638749 


993. Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):57-9.

Infrared spectrum of an extremely cool white-dwarf star

Hodgkin ST(1), Oppenheimer BR, Hambly NC, Jameson RF, Smartt SJ, Steele IA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Leicester, UK.
sth@ast.cam.ac.uk

White dwarfs are the remnant cores of stars that initially had masses of less
than 8 solar masses. They cool gradually over billions of years, and have been
suggested to make up much of the 'dark matter' in the halo of the Milky Way. But 
extremely cool white dwarfs have proved difficult to detect, owing to both their 
faintness and their anticipated similarity in colour to other classes of dwarf
stars. Recent improved models indicate that white dwarfs are much more blue than 
previously supposed, suggesting that the earlier searches may have been looking
for the wrong kinds of objects. Here we report an infrared spectrum of an
extremely cool white dwarf that is consistent with the new models. We determine
the star's temperature to be 3,500 +/- 200 K, making it the coolest known white
dwarf. The kinematics of this star indicate that it is in the halo of the Milky
Way, and the density of such objects implied by the serendipitous discovery of
this star is consistent with white dwarfs dominating the dark matter in the halo.

DOI: 10.1038/47431 
PMID: 10638748 


994. Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):54-6.

Adaptive-optics corrections available for the whole sky

Ragazzoni R(1), Marchetti E, Valente G.

Author information: 
(1)Astronomical Observatory of Padova vicolo dell'Osservatorio, Italy.
ragazzoni@pd.astro.it

Adaptive-optics systems can in principle allow a telescope to achieve performance
at its theoretical maximum (limited only by diffraction), by correcting in real
time for the distortion of starlight by atmospheric turbulence. For such a system
installed on an 8-m-class telescope, the spatial resolution and sensitivity could
be up to 100 times better than conventional imaging. Adaptive-optics corrections 
have hitherto been achieved only for regions of the sky within a few arcseconds
of a bright reference source. But it has been proposed theoretically that by
using multiple guide stars, the tomography of atmospheric turbulence could be
probed and used to extend adaptive-optics corrections to the whole sky. Here we
report the experimental verification of such tomographic corrections, using three
off-axis reference stars approximately 15 arcsec from the central star. We used
the observations of the off-axis stars to calculate the deformations of the
wavefront of the central star, and then compare them with the real measured
values. This tomographic approach is found to reduce variations in the wavefront 
by approximately 92%. Our result demonstrates that a serious barrier to achieving
diffraction-limited seeing over the whole sky has been removed.

DOI: 10.1038/47425 
PMID: 10638747 


995. Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):46-53.

Crystal structure of the hereditary haemochromatosis protein HFE complexed with
transferrin receptor.

Bennett MJ(1), Lebrón JA, Bjorkman PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena 91125, USA.

HFE is related to major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I proteins and is 
mutated in the iron-overload disease hereditary haemochromatosis. HFE binds to
the transferrin receptor (TfR), a receptor by which cells acquire iron-loaded
transferrin. The 2.8 A crystal structure of a complex between the extracellular
portions of HFE and TfR shows two HFE molecules which grasp each side of a
twofold symmetric TfR dimer. On a cell membrane containing both proteins, HFE
would 'lie down' parallel to the membrane, such that the HFE helices that
delineate the counterpart of the MHC peptide-binding groove make extensive
contacts with helices in the TfR dimerization domain. The structures of TfR alone
and complexed with HFE differ in their domain arrangement and dimer interfaces,
providing a mechanism for communicating binding events between TfR chains. The
HFE-TfR complex suggests a binding site for transferrin on TfR and sheds light
upon the function of HFE in regulating iron homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1038/47417 
PMID: 10638746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Nature. 2000 Jan 6;403(6765):41-5.

The language of covalent histone modifications.

Strahl BD(1), Allis CD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, University of Virginia
Health Science Center, Charlottesville 22908, USA.

Histone proteins and the nucleosomes they form with DNA are the fundamental
building blocks of eukaryotic chromatin. A diverse array of post-translational
modifications that often occur on tail domains of these proteins has been well
documented. Although the function of these highly conserved modifications has
remained elusive, converging biochemical and genetic evidence suggests functions 
in several chromatin-based processes. We propose that distinct histone
modifications, on one or more tails, act sequentially or in combination to form a
'histone code' that is, read by other proteins to bring about distinct downstream
events.

DOI: 10.1038/47412 
PMID: 10638745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

