
1. Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):191-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09714. Epub 2010 Dec 22.

Cortical representations of olfactory input by trans-synaptic tracing.

Miyamichi K(1), Amat F, Moussavi F, Wang C, Wickersham I, Wall NR, Taniguchi H,
Tasic B, Huang ZJ, He Z, Callaway EM, Horowitz MA, Luo L.

Author information: 
(1)HHMI/Department of Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305,
USA.

In the mouse, each class of olfactory receptor neurons expressing a given odorant
receptor has convergent axonal projections to two specific glomeruli in the
olfactory bulb, thereby creating an odour map. However, it is unclear how this
map is represented in the olfactory cortex. Here we combine
rabies-virus-dependent retrograde mono-trans-synaptic labelling with genetics to 
control the location, number and type of 'starter' cortical neurons, from which
we trace their presynaptic neurons. We find that individual cortical neurons
receive input from multiple mitral cells representing broadly distributed
glomeruli. Different cortical areas represent the olfactory bulb input
differently. For example, the cortical amygdala preferentially receives dorsal
olfactory bulb input, whereas the piriform cortex samples the whole olfactory
bulb without obvious bias. These differences probably reflect different functions
of these cortical areas in mediating innate odour preference or associative
memory. The trans-synaptic labelling method described here should be widely
applicable to mapping connections throughout the mouse nervous system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09714 
PMCID: PMC3073090
PMID: 21179085  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):473-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09715. Epub 2010 Dec 22.

The developmental transcriptome of Drosophila melanogaster.

Graveley BR(1), Brooks AN, Carlson JW, Duff MO, Landolin JM, Yang L, Artieri CG, 
van Baren MJ, Boley N, Booth BW, Brown JB, Cherbas L, Davis CA, Dobin A, Li R,
Lin W, Malone JH, Mattiuzzo NR, Miller D, Sturgill D, Tuch BB, Zaleski C, Zhang
D, Blanchette M, Dudoit S, Eads B, Green RE, Hammonds A, Jiang L, Kapranov P,
Langton L, Perrimon N, Sandler JE, Wan KH, Willingham A, Zhang Y, Zou Y, Andrews 
J, Bickel PJ, Brenner SE, Brent MR, Cherbas P, Gingeras TR, Hoskins RA, Kaufman
TC, Oliver B, Celniker SE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Developmental Biology, University of Connecticut
Health Center, 263 Farmington Avenue, Farmington, Connecticut 06030-6403, USA.
graveley@neuron.uchc.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):458-9.

Drosophila melanogaster is one of the most well studied genetic model organisms; 
nonetheless, its genome still contains unannotated coding and non-coding genes,
transcripts, exons and RNA editing sites. Full discovery and annotation are
pre-requisites for understanding how the regulation of transcription, splicing
and RNA editing directs the development of this complex organism. Here we used
RNA-Seq, tiling microarrays and cDNA sequencing to explore the transcriptome in
30 distinct developmental stages. We identified 111,195 new elements, including
thousands of genes, coding and non-coding transcripts, exons, splicing and
editing events, and inferred protein isoforms that previously eluded discovery
using established experimental, prediction and conservation-based approaches.
These data substantially expand the number of known transcribed elements in the
Drosophila genome and provide a high-resolution view of transcriptome dynamics
throughout development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09715 
PMCID: PMC3075879
PMID: 21179090  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):480-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09725. Epub 2010 Dec 22.

Comprehensive analysis of the chromatin landscape in Drosophila melanogaster.

Kharchenko PV(1), Alekseyenko AA, Schwartz YB, Minoda A, Riddle NC, Ernst J, Sabo
PJ, Larschan E, Gorchakov AA, Gu T, Linder-Basso D, Plachetka A, Shanower G,
Tolstorukov MY, Luquette LJ, Xi R, Jung YL, Park RW, Bishop EP, Canfield TK,
Sandstrom R, Thurman RE, MacAlpine DM, Stamatoyannopoulos JA, Kellis M, Elgin SC,
Kuroda MI, Pirrotta V, Karpen GH, Park PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Biomedical Informatics, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):458-9.
    Nat Methods. 2011 Mar;8(3):204.

Chromatin is composed of DNA and a variety of modified histones and non-histone
proteins, which have an impact on cell differentiation, gene regulation and other
key cellular processes. Here we present a genome-wide chromatin landscape for
Drosophila melanogaster based on eighteen histone modifications, summarized by
nine prevalent combinatorial patterns. Integrative analysis with other data
(non-histone chromatin proteins, DNase I hypersensitivity, GRO-Seq reads produced
by engaged polymerase, short/long RNA products) reveals discrete characteristics 
of chromosomes, genes, regulatory elements and other functional domains. We find 
that active genes display distinct chromatin signatures that are correlated with 
disparate gene lengths, exon patterns, regulatory functions and genomic contexts.
We also demonstrate a diversity of signatures among Polycomb targets that include
a subset with paused polymerase. This systematic profiling and integrative
analysis of chromatin signatures provides insights into how genomic elements are 
regulated, and will serve as a resource for future experimental investigations of
genome structure and function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09725 
PMCID: PMC3109908
PMID: 21179089  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):279-83. doi: 10.1038/nature09692. Epub 2010 Dec 15.

A unique chromatin signature uncovers early developmental enhancers in humans.

Rada-Iglesias A(1), Bajpai R, Swigut T, Brugmann SA, Flynn RA, Wysocka J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical and Systems Biology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2011 Feb 4;8(2):128-9.
    Cell Stem Cell. 2012 Nov 2;11(5):581-2.

Cell-fate transitions involve the integration of genomic information encoded by
regulatory elements, such as enhancers, with the cellular environment. However,
identification of genomic sequences that control human embryonic development
represents a formidable challenge. Here we show that in human embryonic stem
cells (hESCs), unique chromatin signatures identify two distinct classes of
genomic elements, both of which are marked by the presence of chromatin
regulators p300 and BRG1, monomethylation of histone H3 at lysine 4 (H3K4me1),
and low nucleosomal density. In addition, elements of the first class are
distinguished by the acetylation of histone H3 at lysine 27 (H3K27ac), overlap
with previously characterized hESC enhancers, and are located proximally to genes
expressed in hESCs and the epiblast. In contrast, elements of the second class,
which we term 'poised enhancers', are distinguished by the absence of H3K27ac,
enrichment of histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27me3), and are linked to
genes inactive in hESCs and instead are involved in orchestrating early steps in 
embryogenesis, such as gastrulation, mesoderm formation and neurulation.
Consistent with the poised identity, during differentiation of hESCs to
neuroepithelium, a neuroectoderm-specific subset of poised enhancers acquires a
chromatin signature associated with active enhancers. When assayed in zebrafish
embryos, poised enhancers are able to direct cell-type and stage-specific
expression characteristic of their proximal developmental gene, even in the
absence of sequence conservation in the fish genome. Our data demonstrate that
early developmental enhancers are epigenetically pre-marked in hESCs and indicate
an unappreciated role of H3K27me3 at distal regulatory elements. Moreover, the
wealth of new regulatory sequences identified here provides an invaluable
resource for studies and isolation of transient, rare cell populations
representing early stages of human embryogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09692 
PMCID: PMC4445674
PMID: 21160473  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):274-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09625. Epub 2010 Nov 24.

Structures of APC/C(Cdh1) with substrates identify Cdh1 and Apc10 as the D-box
co-receptor.

da Fonseca PC(1), Kong EH, Zhang Z, Schreiber A, Williams MA, Morris EP, Barford 
D.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Structural Biology, Institute of Cancer Research, Chester Beatty
Laboratories, 237 Fulham Road, London SW3 6JB, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):182-3.

The ubiquitylation of cell-cycle regulatory proteins by the large multimeric
anaphase-promoting complex (APC/C) controls sister chromatid segregation and the 
exit from mitosis. Selection of APC/C targets is achieved through recognition of 
destruction motifs, predominantly the destruction (D)-box and KEN
(Lys-Glu-Asn)-box. Although this process is known to involve a co-activator
protein (either Cdc20 or Cdh1) together with core APC/C subunits, the structural 
basis for substrate recognition and ubiquitylation is not understood. Here we
investigate budding yeast APC/C using single-particle electron microscopy and
determine a cryo-electron microscopy map of APC/C in complex with the Cdh1
co-activator protein (APC/C(Cdh1)) bound to a D-box peptide at ∼10 Å resolution. 
We find that a combined catalytic and substrate-recognition module is located
within the central cavity of the APC/C assembled from Cdh1, Apc10--a core APC/C
subunit previously implicated in substrate recognition--and the cullin domain of 
Apc2. Cdh1 and Apc10, identified from difference maps, create a co-receptor for
the D-box following repositioning of Cdh1 towards Apc10. Using NMR spectroscopy
we demonstrate specific D-box-Apc10 interactions, consistent with a role for
Apc10 in directly contributing towards D-box recognition by the APC/C(Cdh1)
complex. Our results rationalize the contribution of both co-activator and core
APC/C subunits to D-box recognition and provide a structural framework for
understanding mechanisms of substrate recognition and catalysis by the APC/C.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09625 
PMCID: PMC3037847
PMID: 21107322  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):115-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09671. Epub 2010 Dec 22.

Oncogenically active MYD88 mutations in human lymphoma.

Ngo VN(1), Young RM, Schmitz R, Jhavar S, Xiao W, Lim KH, Kohlhammer H, Xu W,
Yang Y, Zhao H, Shaffer AL, Romesser P, Wright G, Powell J, Rosenwald A,
Muller-Hermelink HK, Ott G, Gascoyne RD, Connors JM, Rimsza LM, Campo E, Jaffe
ES, Delabie J, Smeland EB, Fisher RI, Braziel RM, Tubbs RR, Cook JR, Weisenburger
DD, Chan WC, Staudt LM.

Author information: 
(1)Metabolism Branch, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute, NIH,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

The activated B-cell-like (ABC) subtype of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) 
remains the least curable form of this malignancy despite recent advances in
therapy. Constitutive nuclear factor (NF)-κB and JAK kinase signalling promotes
malignant cell survival in these lymphomas, but the genetic basis for this
signalling is incompletely understood. Here we describe the dependence of ABC
DLBCLs on MYD88, an adaptor protein that mediates toll and interleukin (IL)-1
receptor signalling, and the discovery of highly recurrent oncogenic mutations
affecting MYD88 in ABC DLBCL tumours. RNA interference screening revealed that
MYD88 and the associated kinases IRAK1 and IRAK4 are essential for ABC DLBCL
survival. High-throughput RNA resequencing uncovered MYD88 mutations in ABC DLBCL
lines. Notably, 29% of ABC DLBCL tumours harboured the same amino acid
substitution, L265P, in the MYD88 Toll/IL-1 receptor (TIR) domain at an
evolutionarily invariant residue in its hydrophobic core. This mutation was rare 
or absent in other DLBCL subtypes and Burkitt's lymphoma, but was observed in 9% 
of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphomas. At a lower frequency, additional 
mutations were observed in the MYD88 TIR domain, occurring in both the ABC and
germinal centre B-cell-like (GCB) DLBCL subtypes. Survival of ABC DLBCL cells
bearing the L265P mutation was sustained by the mutant but not the wild-type
MYD88 isoform, demonstrating that L265P is a gain-of-function driver mutation.
The L265P mutant promoted cell survival by spontaneously assembling a protein
complex containing IRAK1 and IRAK4, leading to IRAK4 kinase activity, IRAK1
phosphorylation, NF-κB signalling, JAK kinase activation of STAT3, and secretion 
of IL-6, IL-10 and interferon-β. Hence, the MYD88 signalling pathway is integral 
to the pathogenesis of ABC DLBCL, supporting the development of inhibitors of
IRAK4 kinase and other components of this pathway for the treatment of tumours
bearing oncogenic MYD88 mutations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09671 
PMCID: PMC5024568
PMID: 21179087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):105-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09691. Epub 2010 Dec 12.

Directed differentiation of human pluripotent stem cells into intestinal tissue
in vitro.

Spence JR(1), Mayhew CN, Rankin SA, Kuhar MF, Vallance JE, Tolle K, Hoskins EE,
Kalinichenko VV, Wells SI, Zorn AM, Shroyer NF, Wells JM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Developmental Biology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical
Center, 3333 Burnet Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio 45229-3039, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Methods. 2011 Feb;8(2):111.
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2011 Feb;8(2):63.

Studies in embryonic development have guided successful efforts to direct the
differentiation of human embryonic and induced pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) into
specific organ cell types in vitro. For example, human PSCs have been
differentiated into monolayer cultures of liver hepatocytes and pancreatic
endocrine cells that have therapeutic efficacy in animal models of liver disease 
and diabetes, respectively. However, the generation of complex three-dimensional 
organ tissues in vitro remains a major challenge for translational studies. Here 
we establish a robust and efficient process to direct the differentiation of
human PSCs into intestinal tissue in vitro using a temporal series of growth
factor manipulations to mimic embryonic intestinal development. This involved
activin-induced definitive endoderm formation, FGF/Wnt-induced posterior endoderm
pattering, hindgut specification and morphogenesis, and a pro-intestinal culture 
system to promote intestinal growth, morphogenesis and cytodifferentiation. The
resulting three-dimensional intestinal 'organoids' consisted of a polarized,
columnar epithelium that was patterned into villus-like structures and crypt-like
proliferative zones that expressed intestinal stem cell markers. The epithelium
contained functional enterocytes, as well as goblet, Paneth and enteroendocrine
cells. Using this culture system as a model to study human intestinal
development, we identified that the combined activity of WNT3A and FGF4 is
required for hindgut specification whereas FGF4 alone is sufficient to promote
hindgut morphogenesis. Our data indicate that human intestinal stem cells form de
novo during development. We also determined that NEUROG3, a pro-endocrine
transcription factor that is mutated in enteric anendocrinosis, is both necessary
and sufficient for human enteroendocrine cell development in vitro. PSC-derived
human intestinal tissue should allow for unprecedented studies of human
intestinal development and disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09691 
PMCID: PMC3033971
PMID: 21151107  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):397-401. doi: 10.1038/nature09633. Epub 2010 Dec
22.

Preplay of future place cell sequences by hippocampal cellular assemblies.

Dragoi G(1), Tonegawa S.

Author information: 
(1)The Picower Institute for Learning and Memory, RIKEN-MIT Center for Neural
Circuit Genetics, Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA. gdragoi@mit.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):303-4.

During spatial exploration, hippocampal neurons show a sequential firing pattern 
in which individual neurons fire specifically at particular locations along the
animal's trajectory (place cells). According to the dominant model of hippocampal
cell assembly activity, place cell firing order is established for the first time
during exploration, to encode the spatial experience, and is subsequently
replayed during rest or slow-wave sleep for consolidation of the encoded
experience. Here we report that temporal sequences of firing of place cells
expressed during a novel spatial experience occurred on a significant number of
occasions during the resting or sleeping period preceding the experience. This
phenomenon, which is called preplay, occurred in disjunction with sequences of
replay of a familiar experience. These results suggest that internal neuronal
dynamics during resting or sleep organize hippocampal cellular assemblies into
temporal sequences that contribute to the encoding of a related novel experience 
occurring in the future.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09633 
PMCID: PMC3104398
PMID: 21179088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):407-10. doi: 10.1038/nature09711. Epub 2010 Dec 19.

Spatially asymmetric reorganization of inhibition establishes a motion-sensitive 
circuit.

Yonehara K(1), Balint K, Noda M, Nagel G, Bamberg E, Roska B.

Author information: 
(1)Neural Circuit Laboratories, Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical
Research, 4058 Basel, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Feb;12(2):64.

Spatial asymmetries in neural connectivity have an important role in creating
basic building blocks of neuronal processing. A key circuit module of
directionally selective (DS) retinal ganglion cells is a spatially asymmetric
inhibitory input from starburst amacrine cells. It is not known how and when this
circuit asymmetry is established during development. Here we photostimulate mouse
starburst cells targeted with channelrhodopsin-2 (refs 6-8) while recording from 
a single genetically labelled type of DS cell. We follow the spatial distribution
of synaptic strengths between starburst and DS cells during early postnatal
development before these neurons can respond to a physiological light stimulus,
and confirm connectivity by monosynaptically restricted trans-synaptic rabies
viral tracing. We show that asymmetry develops rapidly over a 2-day period
through an intermediate state in which random or symmetric synaptic connections
have been established. The development of asymmetry involves the spatially
selective reorganization of inhibitory synaptic inputs. Intriguingly, the spatial
distribution of excitatory synaptic inputs from starburst cells is significantly 
more symmetric than that of the inhibitory inputs at the end of this
developmental period. Our work demonstrates a rapid developmental switch from a
symmetric to asymmetric input distribution for inhibition in the neural circuit
of a principal cell.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09711 
PMID: 21170022  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):356-61. doi: 10.1038/nature09650. Epub 2010 Dec 15.

Genetic variegation of clonal architecture and propagating cells in leukaemia.

Anderson K(1), Lutz C, van Delft FW, Bateman CM, Guo Y, Colman SM, Kempski H,
Moorman AV, Titley I, Swansbury J, Kearney L, Enver T, Greaves M.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Haemato-Oncology, The Institute of Cancer Research, Sutton SM2 5NG,
UK.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2011 Mar 4;8(3):242-4.

Little is known of the genetic architecture of cancer at the subclonal and
single-cell level or in the cells responsible for cancer clone maintenance and
propagation. Here we have examined this issue in childhood acute lymphoblastic
leukaemia in which the ETV6-RUNX1 gene fusion is an early or initiating genetic
lesion followed by a modest number of recurrent or 'driver' copy number
alterations. By multiplexing fluorescence in situ hybridization probes for these 
mutations, up to eight genetic abnormalities can be detected in single cells, a
genetic signature of subclones identified and a composite picture of subclonal
architecture and putative ancestral trees assembled. Subclones in acute
lymphoblastic leukaemia have variegated genetics and complex, nonlinear or
branching evolutionary histories. Copy number alterations are independently and
reiteratively acquired in subclones of individual patients, and in no
preferential order. Clonal architecture is dynamic and is subject to change in
the lead-up to a diagnosis and in relapse. Leukaemia propagating cells, assayed
by serial transplantation in NOD/SCID IL2Rγ(null) mice, are also genetically
variegated, mirroring subclonal patterns, and vary in competitive regenerative
capacity in vivo. These data have implications for cancer genomics and for the
targeted therapy of cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09650 
PMID: 21160474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):402-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09600. Epub 2010 Dec 5.

Development of asymmetric inhibition underlying direction selectivity in the
retina.

Wei W(1), Hamby AM, Zhou K, Feller MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular & Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720-3200, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Feb;12(2):64.

Establishing precise synaptic connections is crucial to the development of
functional neural circuits. The direction-selective circuit in the retina relies 
upon highly selective wiring of inhibitory inputs from starburst amacrine cells
(SACs) onto four subtypes of ON-OFF direction-selective ganglion cells (DSGCs),
each preferring motion in one of four cardinal directions. It has been reported
in rabbit that the SACs on the 'null' sides of DSGCs form functional GABA
(γ-aminobutyric acid)-mediated synapses, whereas those on the preferred sides do 
not. However, it is not known how the asymmetric wiring between SACs and DSGCs is
established during development. Here we report that in transgenic mice with
cell-type-specific labelling, the synaptic connections from SACs to DSGCs were of
equal strength during the first postnatal week, regardless of whether the SAC was
located on the preferred or null side of the DSGC. However, by the end of the
second postnatal week, the strength of the synapses made from SACs on the null
side of a DSGC significantly increased whereas those made from SACs located on
the preferred side remained constant. Blocking retinal activity by intraocular
injections of muscimol or gabazine during this period did not alter the
development of direction selectivity. Hence, the asymmetric inhibition between
the SACs and DSGCs is achieved by a developmental program that specifically
strengthens the GABA-mediated inputs from SACs located on the null side, in a
manner not dependent on neural activity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09600 
PMCID: PMC3974627
PMID: 21131947  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):415-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09637. Epub 2010 Nov 28.

Paneth cells constitute the niche for Lgr5 stem cells in intestinal crypts.

Sato T(1), van Es JH, Snippert HJ, Stange DE, Vries RG, van den Born M, Barker N,
Shroyer NF, van de Wetering M, Clevers H.

Author information: 
(1)Hubrecht Institute, KNAW and University Medical Center Utrecht, Uppsalalaan 8,
3584CT Utrecht, the Netherlands.

Homeostasis of self-renewing small intestinal crypts results from neutral
competition between Lgr5 stem cells, which are small cycling cells located at
crypt bottoms. Lgr5 stem cells are interspersed between terminally differentiated
Paneth cells that are known to produce bactericidal products such as lysozyme and
cryptdins/defensins. Single Lgr5-expressing stem cells can be cultured to form
long-lived, self-organizing crypt-villus organoids in the absence of
non-epithelial niche cells. Here we find a close physical association of Lgr5
stem cells with Paneth cells in mice, both in vivo and in vitro. CD24(+) Paneth
cells express EGF, TGF-α, Wnt3 and the Notch ligand Dll4, all essential signals
for stem-cell maintenance in culture. Co-culturing of sorted stem cells with
Paneth cells markedly improves organoid formation. This Paneth cell requirement
can be substituted by a pulse of exogenous Wnt. Genetic removal of Paneth cells
in vivo results in the concomitant loss of Lgr5 stem cells. In colon crypts,
CD24(+) cells residing between Lgr5 stem cells may represent the Paneth cell
equivalents. We conclude that Lgr5 stem cells compete for essential niche signals
provided by a specialized daughter cell, the Paneth cell.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09637 
PMCID: PMC3547360
PMID: 21113151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):245-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09585. Epub 2010 Dec 15.

H2AX prevents CtIP-mediated DNA end resection and aberrant repair in G1-phase
lymphocytes.

Helmink BA(1), Tubbs AT, Dorsett Y, Bednarski JJ, Walker LM, Feng Z, Sharma GG,
McKinnon PJ, Zhang J, Bassing CH, Sleckman BP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):247.

DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) are generated by the recombination activating
gene (RAG) endonuclease in all developing lymphocytes as they assemble antigen
receptor genes. DNA cleavage by RAG occurs only at the G1 phase of the cell cycle
and generates two hairpin-sealed DNA (coding) ends that require nucleolytic
opening before their repair by classical non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ).
Although there are several cellular nucleases that could perform this function,
only the Artemis nuclease is able to do so efficiently. Here, in vivo, we show
that in murine cells the histone protein H2AX prevents nucleases other than
Artemis from processing hairpin-sealed coding ends; in the absence of H2AX, CtIP 
can efficiently promote the hairpin opening and resection of DNA ends generated
by RAG cleavage. This CtIP-mediated resection is inhibited by γ-H2AX and by MDC-1
(mediator of DNA damage checkpoint 1), which binds to γ-H2AX in chromatin
flanking DNA DSBs. Moreover, the ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) kinase
activates antagonistic pathways that modulate this resection. CtIP DNA end
resection activity is normally limited to cells at post-replicative stages of the
cell cycle, in which it is essential for homology-mediated repair. In G1-phase
lymphocytes, DNA ends that are processed by CtIP are not efficiently joined by
classical NHEJ and the joints that do form frequently use micro-homologies and
show significant chromosomal deletions. Thus, H2AX preserves the structural
integrity of broken DNA ends in G1-phase lymphocytes, thereby preventing these
DNA ends from accessing repair pathways that promote genomic instability.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09585 
PMCID: PMC3150591
PMID: 21160476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):250-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09604. Epub 2010 Dec 15.

ATM damage response and XLF repair factor are functionally redundant in joining
DNA breaks.

Zha S(1), Guo C, Boboila C, Oksenych V, Cheng HL, Zhang Y, Wesemann DR, Yuen G,
Patel H, Goff PH, Dubois RL, Alt FW.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, The Children's Hospital, the Immune Disease
Institute and the Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Classical non-homologous DNA end-joining (NHEJ) is a major mammalian DNA
double-strand-break (DSB) repair pathway. Deficiencies for classical NHEJ
factors, such as XRCC4, abrogate lymphocyte development, owing to a strict
requirement for classical NHEJ to join V(D)J recombination DSB intermediates. The
XRCC4-like factor (XLF; also called NHEJ1) is mutated in certain immunodeficient 
human patients and has been implicated in classical NHEJ; however, XLF-deficient 
mice have relatively normal lymphocyte development and their lymphocytes support 
normal V(D)J recombination. The ataxia telangiectasia-mutated protein (ATM)
detects DSBs and activates DSB responses by phosphorylating substrates including 
histone H2AX. However, ATM deficiency causes only modest V(D)J recombination and 
lymphocyte developmental defects, and H2AX deficiency does not have a measurable 
impact on these processes. Here we show that XLF, ATM and H2AX all have
fundamental roles in processing and joining DNA ends during V(D)J recombination, 
but that these roles have been masked by unanticipated functional redundancies.
Thus, combined deficiency of ATM and XLF nearly blocks mouse lymphocyte
development due to an inability to process and join chromosomal V(D)J
recombination DSB intermediates. Combined XLF and ATM deficiency also severely
impairs classical NHEJ, but not alternative end-joining, during IgH class switch 
recombination. Redundant ATM and XLF functions in classical NHEJ are mediated by 
ATM kinase activity and are not required for extra-chromosomal V(D)J
recombination, indicating a role for chromatin-associated ATM substrates.
Correspondingly, conditional H2AX inactivation in XLF-deficient pro-B lines leads
to V(D)J recombination defects associated with marked degradation of unjoined
V(D)J ends, revealing that H2AX has a role in this process.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09604 
PMCID: PMC3058373
PMID: 21160472  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):212-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09565. Epub 2010 Dec 8.

Robust multicellular computing using genetically encoded NOR gates and chemical
'wires'.

Tamsir A(1), Tabor JJ, Voigt CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California, San
Francisco, California 94158, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):171-2.

Computation underlies the organization of cells into higher-order structures, for
example during development or the spatial association of bacteria in a biofilm.
Each cell performs a simple computational operation, but when combined with
cell-cell communication, intricate patterns emerge. Here we study this process by
combining a simple genetic circuit with quorum sensing to produce more complex
computations in space. We construct a simple NOR logic gate in Escherichia coli
by arranging two tandem promoters that function as inputs to drive the
transcription of a repressor. The repressor inactivates a promoter that serves as
the output. Individual colonies of E. coli carry the same NOR gate, but the
inputs and outputs are wired to different orthogonal quorum-sensing 'sender' and 
'receiver' devices. The quorum molecules form the wires between gates. By
arranging the colonies in different spatial configurations, all possible
two-input gates are produced, including the difficult XOR and EQUALS functions.
The response is strong and robust, with 5- to >300-fold changes between the 'on' 
and 'off' states. This work helps elucidate the design rules by which simple
logic can be harnessed to produce diverse and complex calculations by rewiring
communication between cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09565 
PMCID: PMC3904220
PMID: 21150903  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):207-11. doi: 10.1038/nature09679. Epub 2010 Dec 8.

Distributed biological computation with multicellular engineered networks.

Regot S(1), Macia J, Conde N, Furukawa K, Kjellén J, Peeters T, Hohmann S, de
Nadal E, Posas F, Solé R.

Author information: 
(1)Cell signaling unit, Departament de Ciències Experimentals i de la Salut,
Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF), E-08003 Barcelona, Spain.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):171-2.

Ongoing efforts within synthetic and systems biology have been directed towards
the building of artificial computational devices using engineered biological
units as basic building blocks. Such efforts, inspired in the standard design of 
electronic circuits, are limited by the difficulties arising from wiring the
basic computational units (logic gates) through the appropriate connections, each
one to be implemented by a different molecule. Here, we show that there is a
logically different form of implementing complex Boolean logic computations that 
reduces wiring constraints thanks to a redundant distribution of the desired
output among engineered cells. A practical implementation is presented using a
library of engineered yeast cells, which can be combined in multiple ways. Each
construct defines a logic function and combining cells and their connections
allow building more complex synthetic devices. As a proof of principle, we have
implemented many logic functions by using just a few engineered cells. Of note,
small modifications and combination of those cells allowed for implementing more 
complex circuits such as a multiplexer or a 1-bit adder with carry, showing the
great potential for re-utilization of small parts of the circuit. Our results
support the approach of using cellular consortia as an efficient way of
engineering complex tasks not easily solvable using single-cell implementations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09679 
PMID: 21150900  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):216-20. doi: 10.1038/nature09609. Epub 2010 Dec 1.

Integrative genomics identifies LMO1 as a neuroblastoma oncogene.

Wang K(1), Diskin SJ, Zhang H, Attiyeh EF, Winter C, Hou C, Schnepp RW, Diamond
M, Bosse K, Mayes PA, Glessner J, Kim C, Frackelton E, Garris M, Wang Q,
Glaberson W, Chiavacci R, Nguyen L, Jagannathan J, Saeki N, Sasaki H, Grant SF,
Iolascon A, Mosse YP, Cole KA, Li H, Devoto M, McGrady PW, London WB, Capasso M, 
Rahman N, Hakonarson H, Maris JM.

Author information: 
(1)The Center for Applied Genomics, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Neuroblastoma is a childhood cancer of the sympathetic nervous system that
accounts for approximately 10% of all paediatric oncology deaths. To identify
genetic risk factors for neuroblastoma, we performed a genome-wide association
study (GWAS) on 2,251 patients and 6,097 control subjects of European ancestry
from four case series. Here we report a significant association within LIM domain
only 1 (LMO1) at 11p15.4 (rs110419, combined P = 5.2 × 10(-16), odds ratio of
risk allele = 1.34 (95% confidence interval 1.25-1.44)). The signal was enriched 
in the subset of patients with the most aggressive form of the disease. LMO1
encodes a cysteine-rich transcriptional regulator, and its paralogues (LMO2, LMO3
and LMO4) have each been previously implicated in cancer. In parallel, we
analysed genome-wide DNA copy number alterations in 701 primary tumours. We found
that the LMO1 locus was aberrant in 12.4% through a duplication event, and that
this event was associated with more advanced disease (P < 0.0001) and survival (P
= 0.041). The germline single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) risk alleles and
somatic copy number gains were associated with increased LMO1 expression in
neuroblastoma cell lines and primary tumours, consistent with a gain-of-function 
role in tumorigenesis. Short hairpin RNA (shRNA)-mediated depletion of LMO1
inhibited growth of neuroblastoma cells with high LMO1 expression, whereas forced
expression of LMO1 in neuroblastoma cells with low LMO1 expression enhanced
proliferation. These data show that common polymorphisms at the LMO1 locus are
strongly associated with susceptibility to developing neuroblastoma, but also may
influence the likelihood of further somatic alterations at this locus, leading to
malignant progression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09609 
PMCID: PMC3320515
PMID: 21124317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):221-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09663. Epub 2010 Dec 1.

A role for mitochondria in NLRP3 inflammasome activation.

Zhou R(1), Yazdi AS, Menu P, Tschopp J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Center of Immunity and Infection, University of
Lausanne, Chemin des Boveresses 155, CH-1066 Epalinges, Switzerland.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 7;475(7354):122.

An inflammatory response initiated by the NLRP3 inflammasome is triggered by a
variety of situations of host 'danger', including infection and metabolic
dysregulation. Previous studies suggested that NLRP3 inflammasome activity is
negatively regulated by autophagy and positively regulated by reactive oxygen
species (ROS) derived from an uncharacterized organelle. Here we show that
mitophagy/autophagy blockade leads to the accumulation of damaged, ROS-generating
mitochondria, and this in turn activates the NLRP3 inflammasome. Resting NLRP3
localizes to endoplasmic reticulum structures, whereas on inflammasome activation
both NLRP3 and its adaptor ASC redistribute to the perinuclear space where they
co-localize with endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria organelle clusters.
Notably, both ROS generation and inflammasome activation are suppressed when
mitochondrial activity is dysregulated by inhibition of the voltage-dependent
anion channel. This indicates that NLRP3 inflammasome senses mitochondrial
dysfunction and may explain the frequent association of mitochondrial damage with
inflammatory diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09663 
PMID: 21124315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):93-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09649. Epub 2010 Dec 19.

Rapid evolutionary innovation during an Archaean genetic expansion.

David LA(1), Alm EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Computational & Systems Biology Initiative, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

The natural history of Precambrian life is still unknown because of the rarity of
microbial fossils and biomarkers. However, the composition of modern-day genomes 
may bear imprints of ancient biogeochemical events. Here we use an explicit model
of macroevolution including gene birth, transfer, duplication and loss events to 
map the evolutionary history of 3,983 gene families across the three domains of
life onto a geological timeline. Surprisingly, we find that a brief period of
genetic innovation during the Archaean eon, which coincides with a rapid
diversification of bacterial lineages, gave rise to 27% of major modern gene
families. A functional analysis of genes born during this Archaean expansion
reveals that they are likely to be involved in electron-transport and respiratory
pathways. Genes arising after this expansion show increasing use of molecular
oxygen (P = 3.4 × 10(-8)) and redox-sensitive transition metals and compounds,
which is consistent with an increasingly oxygenating biosphere.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09649 
PMID: 21170026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):107-11. doi: 10.1038/nature09593. Epub 2010 Dec 19.

The assembly of a GTPase-kinase signalling complex by a bacterial catalytic
scaffold.

Selyunin AS(1), Sutton SE, Weigele BA, Reddick LE, Orchard RC, Bresson SM,
Tomchick DR, Alto NM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
5323 Harry Hines Boulevard, Dallas, Texas 75390-8816, USA.

The fidelity and specificity of information flow within a cell is controlled by
scaffolding proteins that assemble and link enzymes into signalling circuits.
These circuits can be inhibited by bacterial effector proteins that
post-translationally modify individual pathway components. However, there is
emerging evidence that pathogens directly organize higher-order signalling
networks through enzyme scaffolding, and the identity of the effectors and their 
mechanisms of action are poorly understood. Here we identify the
enterohaemorrhagic Escherichia coli O157:H7 type III effector EspG as a regulator
of endomembrane trafficking using a functional screen, and report
ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF) GTPases and p21-activated kinases (PAKs) as its
relevant host substrates. The 2.5 Å crystal structure of EspG in complex with
ARF6 shows how EspG blocks GTPase-activating-protein-assisted GTP hydrolysis,
revealing a potent mechanism of GTPase signalling inhibition at organelle
membranes. In addition, the 2.8 Å crystal structure of EspG in complex with the
autoinhibitory Iα3-helix of PAK2 defines a previously unknown catalytic site in
EspG and provides an allosteric mechanism of kinase activation by a bacterial
effector. Unexpectedly, ARF and PAKs are organized on adjacent surfaces of EspG, 
indicating its role as a 'catalytic scaffold' that effectively reprograms
cellular events through the functional assembly of GTPase-kinase signalling
complex.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09593 
PMCID: PMC3675890
PMID: 21170023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):116-20. doi: 10.1038/nature09628. Epub 2010 Dec 15.

Taxadiene synthase structure and evolution of modular architecture in terpene
biosynthesis.

Köksal M(1), Jin Y, Coates RM, Croteau R, Christianson DW.

Author information: 
(1)Roy and Diana Vagelos Laboratories, Department of Chemistry, University of
Pennsylvania, 231 South 34th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104-6323, USA.

With more than 55,000 members identified so far in all forms of life, the family 
of terpene or terpenoid natural products represents the epitome of molecular
biodiversity. A well-known and important member of this family is the polycyclic 
diterpenoid Taxol (paclitaxel), which promotes tubulin polymerization and shows
remarkable efficacy in cancer chemotherapy. The first committed step of Taxol
biosynthesis in the Pacific yew (Taxus brevifolia) is the cyclization of the
linear isoprenoid substrate geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) to form
taxa-4(5),11(12)diene, which is catalysed by taxadiene synthase. The full-length 
form of this diterpene cyclase contains 862 residues, but a roughly 80-residue
amino-terminal transit sequence is cleaved on maturation in plastids. We now
report the X-ray crystal structure of a truncation variant lacking the transit
sequence and an additional 27 residues at the N terminus, hereafter designated
TXS. Specifically, we have determined structures of TXS complexed with
13-aza-13,14-dihydrocopalyl diphosphate (1.82 Å resolution) and
2-fluorogeranylgeranyl diphosphate (2.25 Å resolution). The TXS structure reveals
a modular assembly of three α-helical domains. The carboxy-terminal catalytic
domain is a class I terpenoid cyclase, which binds and activates substrate GGPP
with a three-metal ion cluster. The N-terminal domain and a third 'insertion'
domain together adopt the fold of a vestigial class II terpenoid cyclase. A
class II cyclase activates the isoprenoid substrate by protonation instead of
ionization, and the TXS structure reveals a definitive connection between the two
distinct cyclase classes in the evolution of terpenoid biosynthesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09628 
PMCID: PMC3059769
PMID: 21160477  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):112-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09608. Epub 2010 Dec 12.

CENP-B preserves genome integrity at replication forks paused by retrotransposon 
LTR.

Zaratiegui M(1), Vaughn MW, Irvine DV, Goto D, Watt S, Bähler J, Arcangioli B,
Martienssen RA.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, 1 Bungtown Road, Cold Spring Harbor, New York
11724, USA.

Centromere-binding protein B (CENP-B) is a widely conserved DNA binding factor
associated with heterochromatin and centromeric satellite repeats. In fission
yeast, CENP-B homologues have been shown to silence long terminal repeat (LTR)
retrotransposons by recruiting histone deacetylases. However, CENP-B factors also
have unexplained roles in DNA replication. Here we show that a molecular function
of CENP-B is to promote replication-fork progression through the LTR. Mutants
have increased genomic instability caused by replication-fork blockage that
depends on the DNA binding factor switch-activating protein 1 (Sap1), which is
directly recruited by the LTR. The loss of Sap1-dependent barrier activity allows
the unhindered progression of the replication fork, but results in rearrangements
deleterious to the retrotransposon. We conclude that retrotransposons influence
replication polarity through recruitment of Sap1 and transposition near
replication-fork blocks, whereas CENP-B counteracts this activity and promotes
fork stability. Our results may account for the role of LTR in fragile sites, and
for the association of CENP-B with pericentromeric heterochromatin and tandem
satellite repeats.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09608 
PMCID: PMC3057531
PMID: 21151105  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):64-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09602. Epub 2010 Dec 8.

A high C/O ratio and weak thermal inversion in the atmosphere of exoplanet
WASP-12b.

Madhusudhan N(1), Harrington J, Stevenson KB, Nymeyer S, Campo CJ, Wheatley PJ,
Deming D, Blecic J, Hardy RA, Lust NB, Anderson DR, Collier-Cameron A, Britt CB, 
Bowman WC, Hebb L, Hellier C, Maxted PF, Pollacco D, West RG.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
nmadhu@mit.edu

The carbon-to-oxygen ratio (C/O) in a planet provides critical information about 
its primordial origins and subsequent evolution. A primordial C/O greater than
0.8 causes a carbide-dominated interior, as opposed to the silicate-dominated
composition found on Earth; the atmosphere can also differ from those in the
Solar System. The solar C/O is 0.54 (ref. 3). Here we report an analysis of
dayside multi-wavelength photometry of the transiting hot-Jupiter WASP-12b (ref. 
6) that reveals C/O ≥ 1 in its atmosphere. The atmosphere is abundant in CO. It
is depleted in water vapour and enhanced in methane, each by more than two orders
of magnitude compared to a solar-abundance chemical-equilibrium model at the
expected temperatures. We also find that the extremely irradiated atmosphere
(T > 2,500 K) of WASP-12b lacks a prominent thermal inversion (or stratosphere)
and has very efficient day-night energy circulation. The absence of a strong
thermal inversion is in stark contrast to theoretical predictions for the most
highly irradiated hot-Jupiter atmospheres.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09602 
PMID: 21150901 


24. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):53-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09588. Epub 2010 Dec 8.

A selective role for dopamine in stimulus-reward learning.

Flagel SB(1), Clark JJ, Robinson TE, Mayo L, Czuj A, Willuhn I, Akers CA, Clinton
SM, Phillips PE, Akil H.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Behavioral Neuroscience Institute, University of Michigan,
Michigan, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Feb;12(2):64.

Individuals make choices and prioritize goals using complex processes that assign
value to rewards and associated stimuli. During Pavlovian learning, previously
neutral stimuli that predict rewards can acquire motivational properties,
becoming attractive and desirable incentive stimuli. However, whether a cue acts 
solely as a predictor of reward, or also serves as an incentive stimulus, differs
between individuals. Thus, individuals vary in the degree to which cues bias
choice and potentially promote maladaptive behaviour. Here we use rats that
differ in the incentive motivational properties they attribute to food cues to
probe the role of the neurotransmitter dopamine in stimulus-reward learning. We
show that intact dopamine transmission is not required for all forms of learning 
in which reward cues become effective predictors. Rather, dopamine acts
selectively in a form of stimulus-reward learning in which incentive salience is 
assigned to reward cues. In individuals with a propensity for this form of
learning, reward cues come to powerfully motivate and control behaviour. This
work provides insight into the neurobiology of a form of stimulus-reward learning
that confers increased susceptibility to disorders of impulse control.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09588 
PMCID: PMC3058375
PMID: 21150898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):102-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09603. Epub 2010 Nov 28.

Telomerase reactivation reverses tissue degeneration in aged telomerase-deficient
mice.

Jaskelioff M(1), Muller FL, Paik JH, Thomas E, Jiang S, Adams AC, Sahin E,
Kost-Alimova M, Protopopov A, Cadiñanos J, Horner JW, Maratos-Flier E, Depinho
RA.

Author information: 
(1)Belfer Institute for Applied Cancer Science and Departments of Medical
Oncology, Medicine and Genetics, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2011 Jan 7;8(1):3-4.

An ageing world population has fuelled interest in regenerative remedies that may
stem declining organ function and maintain fitness. Unanswered is whether
elimination of intrinsic instigators driving age-associated degeneration can
reverse, as opposed to simply arrest, various afflictions of the aged. Such
instigators include progressively damaged genomes. Telomerase-deficient mice have
served as a model system to study the adverse cellular and organismal
consequences of wide-spread endogenous DNA damage signalling activation in vivo. 
Telomere loss and uncapping provokes progressive tissue atrophy, stem cell
depletion, organ system failure and impaired tissue injury responses. Here, we
sought to determine whether entrenched multi-system degeneration in adult mice
with severe telomere dysfunction can be halted or possibly reversed by
reactivation of endogenous telomerase activity. To this end, we engineered a
knock-in allele encoding a 4-hydroxytamoxifen (4-OHT)-inducible telomerase
reverse transcriptase-oestrogen receptor (TERT-ER) under transcriptional control 
of the endogenous TERT promoter. Homozygous TERT-ER mice have short dysfunctional
telomeres and sustain increased DNA damage signalling and classical degenerative 
phenotypes upon successive generational matings and advancing age. Telomerase
reactivation in such late generation TERT-ER mice extends telomeres, reduces DNA 
damage signalling and associated cellular checkpoint responses, allows resumption
of proliferation in quiescent cultures, and eliminates degenerative phenotypes
across multiple organs including testes, spleens and intestines. Notably, somatic
telomerase reactivation reversed neurodegeneration with restoration of
proliferating Sox2(+) neural progenitors, Dcx(+) newborn neurons, and Olig2(+)
oligodendrocyte populations. Consistent with the integral role of subventricular 
zone neural progenitors in generation and maintenance of olfactory bulb
interneurons, this wave of telomerase-dependent neurogenesis resulted in
alleviation of hyposmia and recovery of innate olfactory avoidance responses.
Accumulating evidence implicating telomere damage as a driver of age-associated
organ decline and disease risk and the marked reversal of systemic degenerative
phenotypes in adult mice observed here support the development of regenerative
strategies designed to restore telomere integrity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09603 
PMCID: PMC3057569
PMID: 21113150  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):47-52. doi: 10.1038/nature09635. Epub 2010 Nov 28.

Reversing EphB2 depletion rescues cognitive functions in Alzheimer model.

Cissé M(1), Halabisky B, Harris J, Devidze N, Dubal DB, Sun B, Orr A, Lotz G, Kim
DH, Hamto P, Ho K, Yu GQ, Mucke L.

Author information: 
(1)Gladstone Institute of Neurological Disease, San Francisco, California 94158, 
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):44-5.
    Nat Rev Neurol. 2011 Feb;7(2):62.

Amyloid-β oligomers may cause cognitive deficits in Alzheimer's disease by
impairing neuronal NMDA-type glutamate receptors, whose function is regulated by 
the receptor tyrosine kinase EphB2. Here we show that amyloid-β oligomers bind to
the fibronectin repeats domain of EphB2 and trigger EphB2 degradation in the
proteasome. To determine the pathogenic importance of EphB2 depletions in
Alzheimer's disease and related models, we used lentiviral constructs to reduce
or increase neuronal expression of EphB2 in memory centres of the mouse brain. In
nontransgenic mice, knockdown of EphB2 mediated by short hairpin RNA reduced NMDA
receptor currents and impaired long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus, which
are important for memory formation. Increasing EphB2 expression in the dentate
gyrus of human amyloid precursor protein transgenic mice reversed deficits in
NMDA receptor-dependent long-term potentiation and memory impairments. Thus,
depletion of EphB2 is critical in amyloid-β-induced neuronal dysfunction.
Increasing EphB2 levels or function could be beneficial in Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09635 
PMCID: PMC3030448
PMID: 21113149  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):97-101. doi: 10.1038/nature09616. Epub 2010 Nov 17.

Formation, regulation and evolution of Caenorhabditis elegans 3'UTRs.

Jan CH(1), Friedman RC, Ruby JG, Bartel DP.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142,
USA.

Post-transcriptional gene regulation frequently occurs through elements in mRNA
3' untranslated regions (UTRs). Although crucial roles for 3'UTR-mediated gene
regulation have been found in Caenorhabditis elegans, most C. elegans genes have 
lacked annotated 3'UTRs. Here we describe a high-throughput method for reliable
identification of polyadenylated RNA termini, and we apply this method, called
poly(A)-position profiling by sequencing (3P-Seq), to determine C. elegans
3'UTRs. Compared to standard methods also recently applied to C. elegans UTRs,
3P-Seq identified 8,580 additional UTRs while excluding thousands of shorter UTR 
isoforms that do not seem to be authentic. Analysis of this expanded and
corrected data set suggested that the high A/U content of C. elegans 3'UTRs
facilitated genome compaction, because the elements specifying cleavage and
polyadenylation, which are A/U rich, can more readily emerge in A/U-rich regions.
Indeed, 30% of the protein-coding genes have mRNAs with alternative, partially
overlapping end regions that generate another 10,480 cleavage and polyadenylation
sites that had gone largely unnoticed and represent potential evolutionary
intermediates of progressive UTR shortening. Moreover, a third of the
convergently transcribed genes use palindromic arrangements of bidirectional
elements to specify UTRs with convergent overlap, which also contributes to
genome compaction by eliminating regions between genes. Although nematode 3'UTRs 
have median length only one-sixth that of mammalian 3'UTRs, they have twice the
density of conserved microRNA sites, in part because additional types of
seed-complementary sites are preferentially conserved. These findings reveal the 
influence of cleavage and polyadenylation on the evolution of genome architecture
and provide resources for studying post-transcriptional gene regulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09616 
PMCID: PMC3057491
PMID: 21085120  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1129-32. doi: 10.1038/nature09581.

Neurotransmitter/sodium symporter orthologue LeuT has a single high-affinity
substrate site.

Piscitelli CL(1), Krishnamurthy H, Gouaux E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Oregon Health and Science
University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson Park Road, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA.

Neurotransmitter/sodium symporters (NSSs) couple the uptake of neurotransmitter
with one or more sodium ions, removing neurotransmitter from the synaptic cleft. 
NSSs are essential to the function of chemical synapses, are associated with
multiple neurological diseases and disorders, and are the targets of therapeutic 
and illicit drugs. LeuT, a prokaryotic orthologue of the NSS family, is a model
transporter for understanding the relationships between molecular mechanism and
atomic structure in a broad range of sodium-dependent and sodium-independent
secondary transporters. At present there is a controversy over whether there are 
one or two high-affinity substrate binding sites in LeuT. The first-reported
crystal structure of LeuT, together with subsequent functional and structural
studies, provided direct evidence for a single, high-affinity, centrally located 
substrate-binding site, defined as the S1 site. Recent binding, flux and
molecular simulation studies, however, have been interpreted in terms of a model 
where there are two high-affinity binding sites: the central, S1, site and a
second, the S2 site, located within the extracellular vestibule. Furthermore, it 
was proposed that the S1 and S2 sites are allosterically coupled such that
occupancy of the S2 site is required for the cytoplasmic release of substrate
from the S1 site. Here we address this controversy by performing direct
measurement of substrate binding to wild-type LeuT and to S2 site mutants using
isothermal titration calorimetry, equilibrium dialysis and scintillation
proximity assays. In addition, we perform uptake experiments to determine whether
the proposed allosteric coupling between the putative S2 site and the S1 site
manifests itself in the kinetics of substrate flux. We conclude that LeuT
harbours a single, centrally located, high-affinity substrate-binding site and
that transport is well described by a simple, single-substrate kinetic mechanism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09581 
PMCID: PMC3079577
PMID: 21179170  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1124-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09574.

Transcriptional activation of polycomb-repressed genes by ZRF1.

Richly H(1), Rocha-Viegas L, Ribeiro JD, Demajo S, Gundem G, Lopez-Bigas N,
Nakagawa T, Rospert S, Ito T, Di Croce L.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Regulació Genòmica (CRG)/UPF, 08003 Barcelona, Spain.

Covalent modification of histones is fundamental in orchestrating chromatin
dynamics and transcription. One example of such an epigenetic mark is the
mono-ubiquitination of histones, which mainly occurs at histone H2A and H2B.
Ubiquitination of histone H2A has been implicated in polycomb-mediated
transcriptional silencing. However, the precise role of the ubiquitin mark during
silencing is still elusive. Here we show in human cell lines that ZRF1
(zuotin-related factor 1) is specifically recruited to histone H2A when it is
ubiquitinated at Lys 119 by means of a novel ubiquitin-interacting domain that is
located in the evolutionarily conserved zuotin domain. At the onset of
differentiation, ZRF1 specifically displaces polycomb-repressive complex 1 (PRC1)
from chromatin and facilitates transcriptional activation. A genome-wide mapping 
of ZRF1, RING1B and H2A-ubiquitin targets revealed its involvement in the
regulation of a large set of polycomb target genes, emphasizing the key role ZRF1
has in cell fate decisions. We provide here a model of the molecular mechanism of
switching polycomb-repressed genes to an active state.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09574 
PMID: 21179169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1115-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09599.

S-glutathionylation uncouples eNOS and regulates its cellular and vascular
function.

Chen CA(1), Wang TY, Varadharaj S, Reyes LA, Hemann C, Talukder MA, Chen YR,
Druhan LJ, Zweier JL.

Author information: 
(1)Davis Heart and Lung Research Institute and Division of Cardiovascular
Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, College of Medicine, Ohio State
University, Columbus, Ohio 43210, USA.

Endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) is critical in the regulation of
vascular function, and can generate both nitric oxide (NO) and superoxide
(O(2)(•-)), which are key mediators of cellular signalling. In the presence of
Ca(2+)/calmodulin, eNOS produces NO, endothelial-derived relaxing factor, from
l-arginine (l-Arg) by means of electron transfer from NADPH through a flavin
containing reductase domain to oxygen bound at the haem of an oxygenase domain,
which also contains binding sites for tetrahydrobiopterin (BH(4)) and l-Arg. In
the absence of BH(4), NO synthesis is abrogated and instead O(2)(•-) is
generated. While NOS dysfunction occurs in diseases with redox stress, BH(4)
repletion only partly restores NOS activity and NOS-dependent vasodilation. This 
suggests that there is an as yet unidentified redox-regulated mechanism
controlling NOS function. Protein thiols can undergo S-glutathionylation, a
reversible protein modification involved in cellular signalling and adaptation.
Under oxidative stress, S-glutathionylation occurs through thiol-disulphide
exchange with oxidized glutathione or reaction of oxidant-induced protein thiyl
radicals with reduced glutathione. Cysteine residues are critical for the
maintenance of eNOS function; we therefore speculated that oxidative stress could
alter eNOS activity through S-glutathionylation. Here we show that
S-glutathionylation of eNOS reversibly decreases NOS activity with an increase in
O(2)(•-) generation primarily from the reductase, in which two highly conserved
cysteine residues are identified as sites of S-glutathionylation and found to be 
critical for redox-regulation of eNOS function. We show that eNOS
S-glutathionylation in endothelial cells, with loss of NO and gain of O(2)(•-)
generation, is associated with impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilation. In
hypertensive vessels, eNOS S-glutathionylation is increased with impaired
endothelium-dependent vasodilation that is restored by thiol-specific reducing
agents, which reverse this S-glutathionylation. Thus, S-glutathionylation of eNOS
is a pivotal switch providing redox regulation of cellular signalling,
endothelial function and vascular tone.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09599 
PMCID: PMC3370391
PMID: 21179168  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1105-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09590.

The histone variant macroH2A suppresses melanoma progression through regulation
of CDK8.

Kapoor A(1), Goldberg MS, Cumberland LK, Ratnakumar K, Segura MF, Emanuel PO,
Menendez S, Vardabasso C, Leroy G, Vidal CI, Polsky D, Osman I, Garcia BA,
Hernando E, Bernstein E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncological Sciences, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, 1425
Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10029, USA.

Cancer is a disease consisting of both genetic and epigenetic changes. Although
increasing evidence demonstrates that tumour progression entails
chromatin-mediated changes such as DNA methylation, the role of histone variants 
in cancer initiation and progression currently remains unclear. Histone variants 
replace conventional histones within the nucleosome and confer unique biological 
functions to chromatin. Here we report that the histone variant macroH2A (mH2A)
suppresses tumour progression of malignant melanoma. Loss of mH2A isoforms,
histone variants generally associated with condensed chromatin and fine-tuning of
developmental gene expression programs, is positively correlated with increasing 
malignant phenotype of melanoma cells in culture and human tissue samples.
Knockdown of mH2A isoforms in melanoma cells of low malignancy results in
significantly increased proliferation and migration in vitro and growth and
metastasis in vivo. Restored expression of mH2A isoforms rescues these malignant 
phenotypes in vitro and in vivo. We demonstrate that the tumour-promoting
function of mH2A loss is mediated, at least in part, through direct
transcriptional upregulation of CDK8. Suppression of CDK8, a colorectal cancer
oncogene, inhibits proliferation of melanoma cells, and knockdown of CDK8 in
cells depleted of mH2A suppresses the proliferative advantage induced by mH2A
loss. Moreover, a significant inverse correlation between mH2A and CDK8
expression levels exists in melanoma patient samples. Taken together, our results
demonstrate that mH2A is a critical component of chromatin that suppresses the
development of malignant melanoma, a highly intractable cutaneous neoplasm.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09590 
PMCID: PMC3057940
PMID: 21179167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1100-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09584.

mTORC1 controls fasting-induced ketogenesis and its modulation by ageing.

Sengupta S(1), Peterson TR, Laplante M, Oh S, Sabatini DM.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Nine Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.

The multi-component mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) kinase is 
the central node of a mammalian pathway that coordinates cell growth with the
availability of nutrients, energy and growth factors. Progress has been made in
the identification of mTORC1 pathway components and in understanding their
functions in cells, but there is relatively little known about the role of the
pathway in vivo. Specifically, we have little knowledge regarding the role mTOCR1
has in liver physiology. In fasted animals, the liver performs numerous functions
that maintain whole-body homeostasis, including the production of ketone bodies
for peripheral tissues to use as energy sources. Here we show that mTORC1
controls ketogenesis in mice in response to fasting. We find that liver-specific 
loss of TSC1 (tuberous sclerosis 1), an mTORC1 inhibitor, leads to a
fasting-resistant increase in liver size, and to a pronounced defect in ketone
body production and ketogenic gene expression on fasting. The loss of raptor
(regulatory associated protein of mTOR, complex 1) an essential mTORC1 component,
has the opposite effects. In addition, we find that the inhibition of mTORC1 is
required for the fasting-induced activation of PPARα (peroxisome proliferator
activated receptor α), the master transcriptional activator of ketogenic genes,
and that suppression of NCoR1 (nuclear receptor co-repressor 1), a co-repressor
of PPARα, reactivates ketogenesis in cells and livers with hyperactive mTORC1
signalling. Like livers with activated mTORC1, livers from aged mice have a
defect in ketogenesis, which correlates with an increase in mTORC1 signalling.
Moreover, we show that the suppressive effects of mTORC1 activation and ageing on
PPARα activity and ketone production are not additive, and that mTORC1 inhibition
is sufficient to prevent the ageing-induced defect in ketogenesis. Thus, our
findings reveal that mTORC1 is a key regulator of PPARα function and hepatic
ketogenesis and suggest a role for mTORC1 activity in promoting the ageing of the
liver.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09584 
PMID: 21179166  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1091-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09685.

Mantle superplasticity and its self-made demise.

Hiraga T(1), Miyazaki T, Tasaka M, Yoshida H.

Author information: 
(1)Earthquake Research Institute, University of Tokyo, 1-1-1 Yayoi, Bunkyo-ku,
Tokyo 113-0032, Japan. hiraga@eri.u-tokyo.ac.jp

The unusual capability of solid crystalline materials to deform plastically,
known as superplasticity, has been found in metals and even in ceramics. Such
superplastic behaviour has been speculated for decades to take place in
geological materials, ranging from surface ice sheets to the Earth's lower
mantle. In materials science, superplasticity is confirmed when the material
deforms with large tensile strain without failure; however, no experimental
studies have yet shown this characteristic in geomaterials. Here we show that
polycrystalline forsterite + periclase (9:1) and forsterite + enstatite +
diopside (7:2.5:0.5), which are good analogues for Earth's mantle, undergo
homogeneous elongation of up to 500 per cent under subsolidus conditions. Such
superplastic deformation is accompanied by strain hardening, which is well
explained by the grain size sensitivity of superplasticity and grain growth under
grain switching conditions (that is, grain boundary sliding); grain boundary
sliding is the main deformation mechanism for superplasticity. We apply the
observed strain-grain size-viscosity relationship to portions of the mantle where
superplasticity has been presumed to take place, such as localized shear zones in
the upper mantle and within subducting slabs penetrating into the transition zone
and lower mantle after a phase transformation. Calculations show that
superplastic flow in the mantle is inevitably accompanied by significant grain
growth that can bring fine grained (≤1 μm) rocks to coarse-grained (1-10 mm)
aggregates, resulting in increasing mantle viscosity and finally termination of
superplastic flow.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09685 
PMID: 21179165 


34. Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1084-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09682.

Spin-orbit qubit in a semiconductor nanowire.

Nadj-Perge S(1), Frolov SM, Bakkers EP, Kouwenhoven LP.

Author information: 
(1)Kavli Institute of Nanoscience, Delft University of Technology, 2600 GA Delft,
The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1045-6.

Motion of electrons can influence their spins through a fundamental effect called
spin-orbit interaction. This interaction provides a way to control spins
electrically and thus lies at the foundation of spintronics. Even at the level of
single electrons, the spin-orbit interaction has proven promising for coherent
spin rotations. Here we implement a spin-orbit quantum bit (qubit) in an indium
arsenide nanowire, where the spin-orbit interaction is so strong that spin and
motion can no longer be separated. In this regime, we realize fast qubit
rotations and universal single-qubit control using only electric fields; the
qubits are hosted in single-electron quantum dots that are individually
addressable. We enhance coherence by dynamically decoupling the qubits from the
environment. Nanowires offer various advantages for quantum computing: they can
serve as one-dimensional templates for scalable qubit registers, and it is
possible to vary the material even during wire growth. Such flexibility can be
used to design wires with suppressed decoherence and to push semiconductor qubit 
fidelities towards error correction levels. Furthermore, electrical dots can be
integrated with optical dots in p-n junction nanowires. The coherence times
achieved here are sufficient for the conversion of an electronic qubit into a
photon, which can serve as a flying qubit for long-distance quantum
communication.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09682 
PMID: 21179164 


35. Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1074-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09543.

Driving the cell cycle with a minimal CDK control network.

Coudreuse D(1), Nurse P.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Yeast Genetics and Cell Biology, The Rockefeller University,
1230 York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA. dcoudreuse@rockefeller.edu

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 Nov;12(11):689.

Control of eukaryotic cell proliferation involves an extended regulatory network,
the complexity of which has made it difficult to understand the basic principles 
of the cell cycle. To investigate the core engine of the mitotic cycle we have
generated a minimal control network in fission yeast that efficiently sustains
cellular reproduction. Here we demonstrate that orderly progression through the
major events of the cell cycle can be driven by oscillation of an engineered
monomolecular cyclin-dependent protein kinase (CDK) module lacking much of the
canonical regulation. We show further that the CDK oscillator acts as the primary
organizer of the cell cycle, imposing timing and directionality to a system of
two CDK activity thresholds that define independent cell cycle phases. We propose
that this simple core architecture forms the basic control of the eukaryotic cell
cycle.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09543 
PMID: 21179163  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1061-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09629.

A population-specific HTR2B stop codon predisposes to severe impulsivity.

Bevilacqua L(1), Doly S, Kaprio J, Yuan Q, Tikkanen R, Paunio T, Zhou Z, Wedenoja
J, Maroteaux L, Diaz S, Belmer A, Hodgkinson CA, Dell'osso L, Suvisaari J,
Coccaro E, Rose RJ, Peltonen L, Virkkunen M, Goldman D.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurogenetics, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and
Alcoholism, NIH, Rockville, Maryland 20852, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):424.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1049-50.

Impulsivity, describing action without foresight, is an important feature of
several psychiatric diseases, suicidality and violent behaviour. The complex
origins of impulsivity hinder identification of the genes influencing it and the 
diseases with which it is associated. Here we perform exon-focused sequencing of 
impulsive individuals in a founder population, targeting fourteen genes belonging
to the serotonin and dopamine domain. A stop codon in HTR2B was identified that
is common (minor allele frequency > 1%) but exclusive to Finnish people.
Expression of the gene in the human brain was assessed, as well as the molecular 
functionality of the stop codon, which was associated with psychiatric diseases
marked by impulsivity in both population and family-based analyses. Knockout of
Htr2b increased impulsive behaviours in mice, indicative of predictive validity. 
Our study shows the potential for identifying and tracing effects of rare alleles
in complex behavioural phenotypes using founder populations, and indicates a role
for HTR2B in impulsivity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09629 
PMCID: PMC3183507
PMID: 21179162  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1053-60. doi: 10.1038/nature09710.

Genetic history of an archaic hominin group from Denisova Cave in Siberia.

Reich D(1), Green RE, Kircher M, Krause J, Patterson N, Durand EY, Viola B,
Briggs AW, Stenzel U, Johnson PL, Maricic T, Good JM, Marques-Bonet T, Alkan C,
Fu Q, Mallick S, Li H, Meyer M, Eichler EE, Stoneking M, Richards M, Talamo S,
Shunkov MV, Derevianko AP, Hublin JJ, Kelso J, Slatkin M, Pääbo S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115,
USA. reich@genetics.med.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1044-5.

Using DNA extracted from a finger bone found in Denisova Cave in southern
Siberia, we have sequenced the genome of an archaic hominin to about 1.9-fold
coverage. This individual is from a group that shares a common origin with
Neanderthals. This population was not involved in the putative gene flow from
Neanderthals into Eurasians; however, the data suggest that it contributed 4-6%
of its genetic material to the genomes of present-day Melanesians. We designate
this hominin population 'Denisovans' and suggest that it may have been widespread
in Asia during the Late Pleistocene epoch. A tooth found in Denisova Cave carries
a mitochondrial genome highly similar to that of the finger bone. This tooth
shares no derived morphological features with Neanderthals or modern humans,
further indicating that Denisovans have an evolutionary history distinct from
Neanderthals and modern humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09710 
PMCID: PMC4306417
PMID: 21179161  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1088-90. doi: 10.1038/nature09664. Epub 2010 Dec
15.

Atom-by-atom spectroscopy at graphene edge.

Suenaga K(1), Koshino M.

Author information: 
(1)Nanotube Research Center, National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science
and Technology (AIST), AIST Central 5, Tsukuba 305-8565, Japan.
suenaga-kazu@aist.go.jp

The properties of many nanoscale devices are sensitive to local atomic
configurations, and so elemental identification and electronic state analysis at 
the scale of individual atoms is becoming increasingly important. For example,
graphene is regarded as a promising candidate for future devices, and the
electronic properties of nanodevices constructed from this material are in large 
part governed by the edge structures. The atomic configurations at graphene
boundaries have been investigated by transmission electron microscopy and
scanning tunnelling microscopy, but the electronic properties of these edge
states have not yet been determined with atomic resolution. Whereas simple
elemental analysis at the level of single atoms can now be achieved by means of
annular dark field imaging or electron energy-loss spectroscopy, obtaining
fine-structure spectroscopic information about individual light atoms such as
those of carbon has been hampered by a combination of extremely weak signals and 
specimen damage by the electron beam. Here we overcome these difficulties to
demonstrate site-specific single-atom spectroscopy at a graphene boundary,
enabling direct investigation of the electronic and bonding structures of the
edge atoms-in particular, discrimination of single-, double- and
triple-coordinated carbon atoms is achieved with atomic resolution. By
demonstrating how rich chemical information can be obtained from single atoms
through energy-loss near-edge fine-structure analysis, our results should open
the way to exploring the local electronic structures of various nanodevices and
individual molecules.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09664 
PMID: 21160475 


39. Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1080-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09684. Epub 2010 Dec 8.

Images of a fourth planet orbiting HR 8799.

Marois C(1), Zuckerman B, Konopacky QM, Macintosh B, Barman T.

Author information: 
(1)National Research Council Canada, Herzberg Institute of Astrophysics, 5071
West Saanich Road, Victoria, British Columbia V9E 2E7, Canada.
christian.marois@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1048-9.

High-contrast near-infrared imaging of the nearby star HR 8799 has shown three
giant planets. Such images were possible because of the wide orbits
(>25 astronomical units, where 1 au is the Earth-Sun distance) and youth
(<100 Myr) of the imaged planets, which are still hot and bright as they radiate 
away gravitational energy acquired during their formation. An important area of
contention in the exoplanet community is whether outer planets (>10 au) more
massive than Jupiter form by way of one-step gravitational instabilities or,
rather, through a two-step process involving accretion of a core followed by
accumulation of a massive outer envelope composed primarily of hydrogen and
helium. Here we report the presence of a fourth planet, interior to and of about 
the same mass as the other three. The system, with this additional planet,
represents a challenge for current planet formation models as none of them can
explain the in situ formation of all four planets. With its four young giant
planets and known cold/warm debris belts, the HR 8799 planetary system is a
unique laboratory in which to study the formation and evolution of giant planets 
at wide (>10 au) separations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09684 
PMID: 21150902 


40. Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1095-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09587. Epub 2010 Dec 8.

Subtypes of medulloblastoma have distinct developmental origins.

Gibson P(1), Tong Y, Robinson G, Thompson MC, Currle DS, Eden C, Kranenburg TA,
Hogg T, Poppleton H, Martin J, Finkelstein D, Pounds S, Weiss A, Patay Z,
Scoggins M, Ogg R, Pei Y, Yang ZJ, Brun S, Lee Y, Zindy F, Lindsey JC, Taketo MM,
Boop FA, Sanford RA, Gajjar A, Clifford SC, Roussel MF, McKinnon PJ, Gutmann DH, 
Ellison DW, Wechsler-Reya R, Gilbertson RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Neurobiology, St Jude Children's Research
Hospital, 262 Danny Thomas Place, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Feb;11(2):79.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Feb;11(2):80.

Medulloblastoma encompasses a collection of clinically and molecularly diverse
tumour subtypes that together comprise the most common malignant childhood brain 
tumour. These tumours are thought to arise within the cerebellum, with
approximately 25% originating from granule neuron precursor cells (GNPCs) after
aberrant activation of the Sonic Hedgehog pathway (hereafter, SHH subtype). The
pathological processes that drive heterogeneity among the other medulloblastoma
subtypes are not known, hindering the development of much needed new therapies.
Here we provide evidence that a discrete subtype of medulloblastoma that contains
activating mutations in the WNT pathway effector CTNNB1 (hereafter, WNT subtype) 
arises outside the cerebellum from cells of the dorsal brainstem. We found that
genes marking human WNT-subtype medulloblastomas are more frequently expressed in
the lower rhombic lip (LRL) and embryonic dorsal brainstem than in the upper
rhombic lip (URL) and developing cerebellum. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and
intra-operative reports showed that human WNT-subtype tumours infiltrate the
dorsal brainstem, whereas SHH-subtype tumours are located within the cerebellar
hemispheres. Activating mutations in Ctnnb1 had little impact on progenitor cell 
populations in the cerebellum, but caused the abnormal accumulation of cells on
the embryonic dorsal brainstem which included aberrantly proliferating Zic1(+)
precursor cells. These lesions persisted in all mutant adult mice; moreover, in
15% of cases in which Tp53 was concurrently deleted, they progressed to form
medulloblastomas that recapitulated the anatomy and gene expression profiles of
human WNT-subtype medulloblastoma. We provide the first evidence, to our
knowledge, that subtypes of medulloblastoma have distinct cellular origins. Our
data provide an explanation for the marked molecular and clinical differences
between SHH- and WNT-subtype medulloblastomas and have profound implications for 
future research and treatment of this important childhood cancer.


PMCID: PMC3059767
PMID: 21150899  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1110-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09566. Epub 2010 Nov 10.

Planar polarized actomyosin contractile flows control epithelial junction
remodelling.

Rauzi M(1), Lenne PF, Lecuit T.

Author information: 
(1)IBDML, UMR6216 CNRS-Université de la Méditerranée, Campus de Luminy, case 907,
13288 Marseille Cedex 09, France.

Force generation by Myosin-II motors on actin filaments drives cell and tissue
morphogenesis. In epithelia, contractile forces are resisted at apical junctions 
by adhesive forces dependent on E-cadherin, which also transmits tension. During 
Drosophila embryonic germband extension, tissue elongation is driven by cell
intercalation, which requires an irreversible and planar polarized remodelling of
epithelial cell junctions. We investigate how cell deformations emerge from the
interplay between force generation and cortical force transmission during this
remodelling in Drosophila melanogaster. The shrinkage of dorsal-ventral-oriented 
('vertical') junctions during this process is known to require planar polarized
junctional contractility by Myosin II (refs 4, 5, 7, 12). Here we show that this 
shrinkage is not produced by junctional Myosin II itself, but by the polarized
flow of medial actomyosin pulses towards 'vertical' junctions. This anisotropic
flow is oriented by the planar polarized distribution of E-cadherin complexes, in
that medial Myosin II flows towards 'vertical' junctions, which have relatively
less E-cadherin than transverse junctions. Our evidence suggests that the medial 
flow pattern reflects equilibrium properties of force transmission and coupling
to E-cadherin by α-Catenin. Thus, epithelial morphogenesis is not properly
reflected by Myosin II steady state distribution but by polarized contractile
actomyosin flows that emerge from interactions between E-cadherin and actomyosin 
networks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09566 
PMID: 21068726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1119-23. doi: 10.1038/nature09589. Epub 2010 Nov
10.

Suppression of inflammation by a synthetic histone mimic.

Nicodeme E(1), Jeffrey KL, Schaefer U, Beinke S, Dewell S, Chung CW, Chandwani R,
Marazzi I, Wilson P, Coste H, White J, Kirilovsky J, Rice CM, Lora JM, Prinjha
RK, Lee K, Tarakhovsky A.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche GSK, 27 Avenue du Québec, 91140 Villebon Sur Yvette,
France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1050-1.

Interaction of pathogens with cells of the immune system results in activation of
inflammatory gene expression. This response, although vital for immune defence,
is frequently deleterious to the host due to the exaggerated production of
inflammatory proteins. The scope of inflammatory responses reflects the
activation state of signalling proteins upstream of inflammatory genes as well as
signal-induced assembly of nuclear chromatin complexes that support mRNA
expression. Recognition of post-translationally modified histones by nuclear
proteins that initiate mRNA transcription and support mRNA elongation is a
critical step in the regulation of gene expression. Here we present a novel
pharmacological approach that targets inflammatory gene expression by interfering
with the recognition of acetylated histones by the bromodomain and extra terminal
domain (BET) family of proteins. We describe a synthetic compound (I-BET) that by
'mimicking' acetylated histones disrupts chromatin complexes responsible for the 
expression of key inflammatory genes in activated macrophages, and confers
protection against lipopolysaccharide-induced endotoxic shock and
bacteria-induced sepsis. Our findings suggest that synthetic compounds
specifically targeting proteins that recognize post-translationally modified
histones can serve as a new generation of immunomodulatory drugs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09589 
PMCID: PMC5415086
PMID: 21068722  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1067-73. doi: 10.1038/nature09504. Epub 2010 Sep
24.

Selective inhibition of BET bromodomains.

Filippakopoulos P(1), Qi J, Picaud S, Shen Y, Smith WB, Fedorov O, Morse EM,
Keates T, Hickman TT, Felletar I, Philpott M, Munro S, McKeown MR, Wang Y,
Christie AL, West N, Cameron MJ, Schwartz B, Heightman TD, La Thangue N, French
CA, Wiest O, Kung AL, Knapp S, Bradner JE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine, Structural Genomics Consortium, University of
Oxford, Old Road Campus, Roosevelt Drive, Oxford OX3 7DQ, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 23;468(7327):1050-1.

Epigenetic proteins are intently pursued targets in ligand discovery. So far,
successful efforts have been limited to chromatin modifying enzymes, or so-called
epigenetic 'writers' and 'erasers'. Potent inhibitors of histone binding modules 
have not yet been described. Here we report a cell-permeable small molecule (JQ1)
that binds competitively to acetyl-lysine recognition motifs, or bromodomains.
High potency and specificity towards a subset of human bromodomains is explained 
by co-crystal structures with bromodomain and extra-terminal (BET) family member 
BRD4, revealing excellent shape complementarity with the acetyl-lysine binding
cavity. Recurrent translocation of BRD4 is observed in a genetically-defined,
incurable subtype of human squamous carcinoma. Competitive binding by JQ1
displaces the BRD4 fusion oncoprotein from chromatin, prompting squamous
differentiation and specific antiproliferative effects in BRD4-dependent cell
lines and patient-derived xenograft models. These data establish proof-of-concept
for targeting protein-protein interactions of epigenetic 'readers', and provide a
versatile chemical scaffold for the development of chemical probes more broadly
throughout the bromodomain family.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09504 
PMCID: PMC3010259
PMID: 20871596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):959-63. doi: 10.1038/nature09560.

Intercalation of a new tier of transcription regulation into an ancient circuit.

Booth LN(1), Tuch BB, Johnson AD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology and Department of Biochemistry and
Biophysics, University of California, San Francisco, California 94158, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Feb;12(2):78.

Changes in gene regulatory networks are a major source of evolutionary novelty.
Here we describe a specific type of network rewiring event, one that intercalates
a new level of transcriptional control into an ancient circuit. We deduce that,
over evolutionary time, the direct ancestral connections between a regulator and 
its target genes were broken and replaced by indirect connections, preserving the
overall logic of the ancestral circuit but producing a new behaviour. The example
was uncovered through a series of experiments in three ascomycete yeasts: the
bakers' yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the dairy yeast Kluyveromyces lactis and 
the human pathogen Candida albicans. All three species have three cell types: two
mating-competent cell forms (a and α) and the product of their mating (a/α),
which is mating-incompetent. In the ancestral mating circuit, two homeodomain
proteins, Mata1 and Matα2, form a heterodimer that directly represses four genes 
that are expressed only in a and α cells and are required for mating. In a
relatively recent ancestor of K. lactis, a reorganization occurred. The
Mata1-Matα2 heterodimer represses the same four genes (known as the core
haploid-specific genes) but now does so indirectly through an intermediate
regulatory protein, Rme1. The overall logic of the ancestral circuit is preserved
(haploid-specific genes ON in a and α cells and OFF in a/α cells), but a new
phenotype was produced by the rewiring: unlike S. cerevisiae and C. albicans, K. 
lactis integrates nutritional signals, by means of Rme1, into the decision of
whether or not to mate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09560 
PMCID: PMC3254258
PMID: 21164485  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):955-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09653.

Greenhouse gas mitigation can reduce sea-ice loss and increase polar bear
persistence.

Amstrup SC(1), Deweaver ET, Douglas DC, Marcot BG, Durner GM, Bitz CM, Bailey DA.

Author information: 
(1)US Geological Survey, Alaska Science Center, 4210 University Drive, Anchorage,
Alaska 99508, USA. samstrup@pbears.org

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):905-6.

On the basis of projected losses of their essential sea-ice habitats, a United
States Geological Survey research team concluded in 2007 that two-thirds of the
world's polar bears (Ursus maritimus) could disappear by mid-century if
business-as-usual greenhouse gas emissions continue. That projection, however,
did not consider the possible benefits of greenhouse gas mitigation. A key
question is whether temperature increases lead to proportional losses of sea-ice 
habitat, or whether sea-ice cover crosses a tipping point and irreversibly
collapses when temperature reaches a critical threshold. Such a tipping point
would mean future greenhouse gas mitigation would confer no conservation benefits
to polar bears. Here we show, using a general circulation model, that
substantially more sea-ice habitat would be retained if greenhouse gas rise is
mitigated. We also show, with Bayesian network model outcomes, that increased
habitat retention under greenhouse gas mitigation means that polar bears could
persist throughout the century in greater numbers and more areas than in the
business-as-usual case. Our general circulation model outcomes did not reveal
thresholds leading to irreversible loss of ice; instead, a linear relationship
between global mean surface air temperature and sea-ice habitat substantiated the
hypothesis that sea-ice thermodynamics can overcome albedo feedbacks proposed to 
cause sea-ice tipping points. Our outcomes indicate that rapid summer ice losses 
in models and observations represent increased volatility of a thinning sea-ice
cover, rather than tipping-point behaviour. Mitigation-driven Bayesian network
outcomes show that previously predicted declines in polar bear distribution and
numbers are not unavoidable. Because polar bears are sentinels of the Arctic
marine ecosystem and trends in their sea-ice habitats foreshadow future global
changes, mitigating greenhouse gas emissions to improve polar bear status would
have conservation benefits throughout and beyond the Arctic.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09653 
PMID: 21164484  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):952-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09643.

Tidal dissipation and the strength of the Earth's internal magnetic field.

Buffett BA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Science, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA. bbuffett@berkeley.edu

Magnetic fields at the Earth's surface represent only a fraction of the field
inside the core. The strength and structure of the internal field are poorly
known, yet the details are important for our understanding of the geodynamo. Here
I obtain an indirect estimate for the field strength from measurements of tidal
dissipation. Tidally driven flow in the Earth's liquid core develops internal
shear layers, which distort the internal magnetic field and generate electric
currents. Ohmic losses damp the tidal motions and produce detectable signatures
in the Earth's nutations. Previously reported evidence of anomalous dissipation
in nutations can be explained with a core-averaged field of 2.5 mT, eliminating
the need for high fluid viscosity or a stronger magnetic field at the inner-core 
boundary. Estimates for the internal field constrain the power required for the
geodynamo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09643 
PMID: 21164483 


47. Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):947-51. doi: 10.1038/nature09620.

Pleats in crystals on curved surfaces.

Irvine WT(1), Vitelli V, Chaikin PM.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Soft Matter Research, Department of Physics, New York University, 4
Washington Place, New York, New York 10003, USA. wtmirvine@uchicago.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):906-7.

Hexagons can easily tile a flat surface, but not a curved one. Introducing
heptagons and pentagons (defects with topological charge) makes it easier to tile
curved surfaces; for example, soccer balls based on the geodesic domes of
Buckminster Fuller have exactly 12 pentagons (positive charges). Interacting
particles that invariably form hexagonal crystals on a plane exhibit fascinating 
scarred defect patterns on a sphere. Here we show that, for more general curved
surfaces, curvature may be relaxed by pleats: uncharged lines of dislocations
(topological dipoles) that vanish on the surface and play the same role as fabric
pleats. We experimentally investigate crystal order on surfaces with spatially
varying positive and negative curvature. On cylindrical capillary bridges,
stretched to produce negative curvature, we observe a sequence of
transitions-consistent with our energetic calculations-from no defects to
isolated dislocations, which subsequently proliferate and organize into pleats;
finally, scars and isolated heptagons (previously unseen) appear. This fine
control of crystal order with curvature will enable explorations of general
theories of defects in curved spaces. From a practical viewpoint, it may be
possible to engineer structures with curvature (such as waisted nanotubes and
vaulted architecture) and to develop novel methods for soft lithography and
directed self-assembly.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09620 
PMID: 21164482 


48. Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):933-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09564.

CRTC3 links catecholamine signalling to energy balance.

Song Y(1), Altarejos J, Goodarzi MO, Inoue H, Guo X, Berdeaux R, Kim JH, Goode J,
Igata M, Paz JC, Hogan MF, Singh PK, Goebel N, Vera L, Miller N, Cui J, Jones MR;
CHARGE Consortium; GIANT Consortium, Chen YD, Taylor KD, Hsueh WA, Rotter JI,
Montminy M.

Author information: 
(1)The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, 10010 North Torrey Pines Road, La
Jolla, California 92037, USA.

The adipose-derived hormone leptin maintains energy balance in part through
central nervous system-mediated increases in sympathetic outflow that enhance fat
burning. Triggering of β-adrenergic receptors in adipocytes stimulates energy
expenditure by cyclic AMP (cAMP)-dependent increases in lipolysis and fatty-acid 
oxidation. Although the mechanism is unclear, catecholamine signalling is thought
to be disrupted in obesity, leading to the development of insulin resistance.
Here we show that the cAMP response element binding (CREB) coactivator Crtc3
promotes obesity by attenuating β-adrenergic receptor signalling in adipose
tissue. Crtc3 was activated in response to catecholamine signals, when it reduced
adenyl cyclase activity by upregulating the expression of Rgs2, a
GTPase-activating protein that also inhibits adenyl cyclase activity. As a common
human CRTC3 variant with increased transcriptional activity is associated with
adiposity in two distinct Mexican-American cohorts, these results suggest that
adipocyte CRTC3 may play a role in the development of obesity in humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09564 
PMCID: PMC3025711
PMID: 21164481  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):927-32. doi: 10.1038/nature09542.

TRIM24 links a non-canonical histone signature to breast cancer.

Tsai WW(1), Wang Z, Yiu TT, Akdemir KC, Xia W, Winter S, Tsai CY, Shi X,
Schwarzer D, Plunkett W, Aronow B, Gozani O, Fischle W, Hung MC, Patel DJ, Barton
MC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Program in Genes and
Development, Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, University of Texas M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Recognition of modified histone species by distinct structural domains within
'reader' proteins plays a critical role in the regulation of gene expression.
Readers that simultaneously recognize histones with multiple marks allow
transduction of complex chromatin modification patterns into specific biological 
outcomes. Here we report that chromatin regulator tripartite motif-containing 24 
(TRIM24) functions in humans as a reader of dual histone marks by means of tandem
plant homeodomain (PHD) and bromodomain (Bromo) regions. The three-dimensional
structure of the PHD-Bromo region of TRIM24 revealed a single functional unit for
combinatorial recognition of unmodified H3K4 (that is, histone H3 unmodified at
lysine 4, H3K4me0) and acetylated H3K23 (histone H3 acetylated at lysine 23,
H3K23ac) within the same histone tail. TRIM24 binds chromatin and oestrogen
receptor to activate oestrogen-dependent genes associated with cellular
proliferation and tumour development. Aberrant expression of TRIM24 negatively
correlates with survival of breast cancer patients. The PHD-Bromo of TRIM24
provides a structural rationale for chromatin activation through a non-canonical 
histone signature, establishing a new route by which chromatin readers may
influence cancer pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09542 
PMCID: PMC3058826
PMID: 21164480  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):911-20. doi: 10.1038/nature09645.

Emerging properties of animal gene regulatory networks.

Davidson EH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology 156-29, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California 91125, USA. Davidson@caltech.edu

Gene regulatory networks (GRNs) provide system level explanations of
developmental and physiological functions in the terms of the genomic regulatory 
code. Depending on their developmental functions, GRNs differ in their degree of 
hierarchy, and also in the types of modular sub-circuit of which they are
composed, although there is a commonly employed sub-circuit repertoire.
Mathematical modelling of some types of GRN sub-circuit has deepened biological
understanding of the functions they mediate. The structural organization of
various kinds of GRN reflects their roles in the life process, and causally
illuminates both developmental and evolutionary process.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09645 
PMCID: PMC3967874
PMID: 21164479  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):E9; discussion E10. doi: 10.1038/nature09482.

Was the universal common ancestry proved?

Yonezawa T(1), Hasegawa M.

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai 200433, China.

Comment on
    Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):219-22.

The question of whether or not all life on Earth shares a single common ancestor 
has been a central problem of evolutionary biology since Darwin. Although the
theory of universal common ancestry (UCA) has gathered a compelling list of
circumstantial evidence, as given in ref. 2, there has been no attempt to test
statistically the UCA hypothesis among the three domains of life (eubacteria,
archaebacteria and eukaryotes) by using molecular sequences. Theobald recently
challenged this problem with a formal statistical test, and concluded that the
UCA hypothesis holds. Although his attempt is the first step towards establishing
the UCA theory with a solid statistical basis, we think that the test of Theobald
is not sufficient enough to reject the alternative hypothesis of the separate
origins of life, despite the Akaike information criterion (AIC) of model
selection giving a clear distinction between the competing hypotheses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09482 
PMID: 21164432  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):943-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09661. Epub 2010 Dec 12.

Origin of Saturn's rings and inner moons by mass removal from a lost Titan-sized 
satellite.

Canup RM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Planetary Science Directorate, Southwest Research Institute, 1050 Walnut
Street, Suite 300, Boulder, Colorado 80302, USA. robin@boulder.swri.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):903-5.

The origin of Saturn's rings has not been adequately explained. The current rings
are more than 90 to 95 per cent water ice, which implies that initially they were
almost pure ice because they are continually polluted by rocky meteoroids. In
contrast, a half-rock, half-ice mixture (similar to the composition of many of
the satellites in the outer Solar System) would generally be expected. Previous
ring origin theories invoke the collisional disruption of a small moon, or the
tidal disruption of a comet during a close passage by Saturn. These models are
improbable and/or struggle to account for basic properties of the rings,
including their icy composition. Saturn has only one large satellite, Titan,
whereas Jupiter has four large satellites; additional large satellites probably
existed originally but were lost as they spiralled into Saturn. Here I report
numerical simulations of the tidal removal of mass from a differentiated,
Titan-sized satellite as it migrates inward towards Saturn. Planetary tidal
forces preferentially strip material from the satellite's outer icy layers, while
its rocky core remains intact and is lost to collision with the planet. The
result is a pure ice ring much more massive than Saturn's current rings. As the
ring evolves, its mass decreases and icy moons are spawned from its outer edge
with estimated masses consistent with Saturn's ice-rich moons interior to and
including Tethys.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09661 
PMID: 21151108 


53. Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):988-91. doi: 10.1038/nature09580. Epub 2010 Dec 5.

The mechanism of sodium and substrate release from the binding pocket of vSGLT.

Watanabe A(1), Choe S, Chaptal V, Rosenberg JM, Wright EM, Grabe M, Abramson J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, 
California 90095-1759, USA.

Membrane co-transport proteins that use a five-helix inverted repeat motif have
recently emerged as one of the largest structural classes of secondary active
transporters. However, despite many structural advances there is no clear
evidence of how ion and substrate transport are coupled. Here we report a
comprehensive study of the sodium/galactose transporter from Vibrio
parahaemolyticus (vSGLT), consisting of molecular dynamics simulations,
biochemical characterization and a new crystal structure of the inward-open
conformation at a resolution of 2.7 Å. Our data show that sodium exit causes a
reorientation of transmembrane helix 1 that opens an inner gate required for
substrate exit, and also triggers minor rigid-body movements in two sets of
transmembrane helical bundles. This cascade of events, initiated by sodium
release, ensures proper timing of ion and substrate release. Once set in motion, 
these molecular changes weaken substrate binding to the transporter and allow
galactose readily to enter the intracellular space. Additionally, we identify an 
allosteric pathway between the sodium-binding sites, the unwound portion of
transmembrane helix 1 and the substrate-binding site that is essential in the
coupling of co-transport.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09580 
PMCID: PMC3736980
PMID: 21131949  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):964-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09570. Epub 2010 Dec 5.

Noise correlations improve response fidelity and stimulus encoding.

Cafaro J(1), Rieke F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA.

Computation in the nervous system often relies on the integration of signals from
parallel circuits with different functional properties. Correlated noise in these
inputs can, in principle, have diverse and dramatic effects on the reliability of
the resulting computations. Such theoretical predictions have rarely been tested 
experimentally because of a scarcity of preparations that permit measurement of
both the covariation of a neuron's input signals and the effect on a cell's
output of manipulating such covariation. Here we introduce a method to measure
covariation of the excitatory and inhibitory inputs a cell receives. This method 
revealed strong correlated noise in the inputs to two types of retinal ganglion
cell. Eliminating correlated noise without changing other input properties
substantially decreased the accuracy with which a cell's spike outputs encoded
light inputs. Thus, covariation of excitatory and inhibitory inputs can be a
critical determinant of the reliability of neural coding and computation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09570 
PMCID: PMC3059552
PMID: 21131948  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):978-82. doi: 10.1038/nature09573. Epub 2010 Dec 1.

Crystal structure of bacterial RNA polymerase bound with a transcription
inhibitor protein.

Tagami S(1), Sekine S, Kumarevel T, Hino N, Murayama Y, Kamegamori S, Yamamoto M,
Sakamoto K, Yokoyama S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biophysics and Biochemistry, Graduate School of Science,
University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan.

The multi-subunit DNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RNAP) is the principal enzyme of 
transcription for gene expression. Transcription is regulated by various
transcription factors. Gre factor homologue 1 (Gfh1), found in the Thermus genus,
is a close homologue of the well-conserved bacterial transcription factor GreA,
and inhibits transcription initiation and elongation by binding directly to RNAP.
The structural basis of transcription inhibition by Gfh1 has remained elusive,
although the crystal structures of RNAP and Gfh1 have been determined separately.
Here we report the crystal structure of Thermus thermophilus RNAP complexed with 
Gfh1. The amino-terminal coiled-coil domain of Gfh1 fully occludes the channel
formed between the two central modules of RNAP; this channel would normally be
used for nucleotide triphosphate (NTP) entry into the catalytic site.
Furthermore, the tip of the coiled-coil domain occupies the NTP β-γ
phosphate-binding site. The NTP-entry channel is expanded, because the central
modules are 'ratcheted' relative to each other by ∼7°, as compared with the
previously reported elongation complexes. This 'ratcheted state' is an
alternative structural state, defined by a newly acquired contact between the
central modules. Therefore, the shape of Gfh1 is appropriate to maintain RNAP in 
the ratcheted state. Simultaneously, the ratcheting expands the
nucleic-acid-binding channel, and kinks the bridge helix, which connects the
central modules. Taken together, the present results reveal that Gfh1 inhibits
transcription by preventing NTP binding and freezing RNAP in the alternative
structural state. The ratcheted state might also be associated with other aspects
of transcription, such as RNAP translocation and transcription termination.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09573 
PMID: 21124318  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):940-2. doi: 10.1038/nature09578. Epub 2010 Dec 1.

A substantial population of low-mass stars in luminous elliptical galaxies.

van Dokkum PG(1), Conroy C.

Author information: 
(1)Astronomy Department, Yale University, New Haven, Connectitcut, USA.
pieter.vandokkum@yale.edu

The stellar initial mass function (IMF) describes the mass distribution of stars 
at the time of their formation and is of fundamental importance for many areas of
astrophysics. The IMF is reasonably well constrained in the disk of the Milky Way
but we have very little direct information on the form of the IMF in other
galaxies and at earlier cosmic epochs. Here we report observations of the Na (I) 
doublet and the Wing-Ford molecular FeH band in the spectra of elliptical
galaxies. These lines are strong in stars with masses less than 0.3M(⊙) (where
M(⊙) is the mass of the Sun) and are weak or absent in all other types of stars. 
We unambiguously detect both signatures, consistent with previous studies that
were based on data of lower signal-to-noise ratio. The direct detection of the
light of low-mass stars implies that they are very abundant in elliptical
galaxies, making up over 80% of the total number of stars and contributing more
than 60% of the total stellar mass. We infer that the IMF in massive star-forming
galaxies in the early Universe produced many more low-mass stars than the IMF in 
the Milky Way disk, and was probably slightly steeper than the Salpeter form in
the mass range 0.1M(⊙) to 1M(⊙).

DOI: 10.1038/nature09578 
PMID: 21124316 


57. Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):973-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09626. Epub 2010 Nov 24.

Melanomas acquire resistance to B-RAF(V600E) inhibition by RTK or N-RAS
upregulation.

Nazarian R(1), Shi H, Wang Q, Kong X, Koya RC, Lee H, Chen Z, Lee MK, Attar N,
Sazegar H, Chodon T, Nelson SF, McArthur G, Sosman JA, Ribas A, Lo RS.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Dermatology/Department of Medicine, UCLA's Jonsson Comprehensive
Cancer Center, 52-121 CHS, Los Angeles, California 90095-1750, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):902-3.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Jan;11(1):2.

Activating B-RAF(V600E) (also known as BRAF) kinase mutations occur in ∼7% of
human malignancies and ∼60% of melanomas. Early clinical experience with a novel 
class I RAF-selective inhibitor, PLX4032, demonstrated an unprecedented 80%
anti-tumour response rate among patients with B-RAF(V600E)-positive melanomas,
but acquired drug resistance frequently develops after initial responses.
Hypotheses for mechanisms of acquired resistance to B-RAF inhibition include
secondary mutations in B-RAF(V600E), MAPK reactivation, and activation of
alternative survival pathways. Here we show that acquired resistance to PLX4032
develops by mutually exclusive PDGFRβ (also known as PDGFRB) upregulation or
N-RAS (also known as NRAS) mutations but not through secondary mutations in
B-RAF(V600E). We used PLX4032-resistant sub-lines artificially derived from
B-RAF(V600E)-positive melanoma cell lines and validated key findings in
PLX4032-resistant tumours and tumour-matched, short-term cultures from clinical
trial patients. Induction of PDGFRβ RNA, protein and tyrosine phosphorylation
emerged as a dominant feature of acquired PLX4032 resistance in a subset of
melanoma sub-lines, patient-derived biopsies and short-term cultures.
PDGFRβ-upregulated tumour cells have low activated RAS levels and, when treated
with PLX4032, do not reactivate the MAPK pathway significantly. In another
subset, high levels of activated N-RAS resulting from mutations lead to
significant MAPK pathway reactivation upon PLX4032 treatment. Knockdown of PDGFRβ
or N-RAS reduced growth of the respective PLX4032-resistant subsets.
Overexpression of PDGFRβ or N-RAS(Q61K) conferred PLX4032 resistance to
PLX4032-sensitive parental cell lines. Importantly, MAPK reactivation predicts
MEK inhibitor sensitivity. Thus, melanomas escape B-RAF(V600E) targeting not
through secondary B-RAF(V600E) mutations but via receptor tyrosine kinase
(RTK)-mediated activation of alternative survival pathway(s) or activated
RAS-mediated reactivation of the MAPK pathway, suggesting additional therapeutic 
strategies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09626 
PMCID: PMC3143360
PMID: 21107323  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):968-72. doi: 10.1038/nature09627. Epub 2010 Nov 24.

COT drives resistance to RAF inhibition through MAP kinase pathway reactivation.

Johannessen CM(1), Boehm JS, Kim SY, Thomas SR, Wardwell L, Johnson LA, Emery CM,
Stransky N, Cogdill AP, Barretina J, Caponigro G, Hieronymus H, Murray RR,
Salehi-Ashtiani K, Hill DE, Vidal M, Zhao JJ, Yang X, Alkan O, Kim S, Harris JL, 
Wilson CJ, Myer VE, Finan PM, Root DE, Roberts TM, Golub T, Flaherty KT, Dummer
R, Weber BL, Sellers WR, Schlegel R, Wargo JA, Hahn WC, Garraway LA.

Author information: 
(1)Broad Institute of Harvard and Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 7
Cambridge Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):902-3.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Jan;11(1):2.

Oncogenic mutations in the serine/threonine kinase B-RAF (also known as BRAF) are
found in 50-70% of malignant melanomas. Pre-clinical studies have demonstrated
that the B-RAF(V600E) mutation predicts a dependency on the mitogen-activated
protein kinase (MAPK) signalling cascade in melanoma-an observation that has been
validated by the success of RAF and MEK inhibitors in clinical trials. However,
clinical responses to targeted anticancer therapeutics are frequently confounded 
by de novo or acquired resistance. Identification of resistance mechanisms in a
manner that elucidates alternative 'druggable' targets may inform effective
long-term treatment strategies. Here we expressed ∼600 kinase and kinase-related 
open reading frames (ORFs) in parallel to interrogate resistance to a selective
RAF kinase inhibitor. We identified MAP3K8 (the gene encoding COT/Tpl2) as a MAPK
pathway agonist that drives resistance to RAF inhibition in B-RAF(V600E) cell
lines. COT activates ERK primarily through MEK-dependent mechanisms that do not
require RAF signalling. Moreover, COT expression is associated with de novo
resistance in B-RAF(V600E) cultured cell lines and acquired resistance in
melanoma cells and tissue obtained from relapsing patients following treatment
with MEK or RAF inhibitors. We further identify combinatorial MAPK pathway
inhibition or targeting of COT kinase activity as possible therapeutic strategies
for reducing MAPK pathway activation in this setting. Together, these results
provide new insights into resistance mechanisms involving the MAPK pathway and
articulate an integrative approach through which high-throughput functional
screens may inform the development of novel therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09627 
PMCID: PMC3058384
PMID: 21107320  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):983-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09561. Epub 2010 Nov 24.

Single-molecule imaging reveals mechanisms of protein disruption by a DNA
translocase.

Finkelstein IJ(1), Visnapuu ML, Greene EC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, Columbia University, New 
York, New York 10032, USA.

In physiological settings, nucleic-acid translocases must act on substrates
occupied by other proteins, and an increasingly appreciated role of translocases 
is to catalyse protein displacement from RNA and DNA. However, little is known
regarding the inevitable collisions that must occur, and the fate of protein
obstacles and the mechanisms by which they are evicted from DNA remain
unexplored. Here we sought to establish the mechanistic basis for protein
displacement from DNA using RecBCD as a model system. Using nanofabricated
curtains of DNA and multicolour single-molecule microscopy, we visualized
collisions between a model translocase and different DNA-bound proteins in real
time. We show that the DNA translocase RecBCD can disrupt core RNA polymerase,
holoenzymes, stalled elongation complexes and transcribing RNA polymerases in
either head-to-head or head-to-tail orientations, as well as EcoRI(E111Q), lac
repressor and even nucleosomes. RecBCD did not pause during collisions and often 
pushed proteins thousands of base pairs before evicting them from DNA. We
conclude that RecBCD overwhelms obstacles through direct transduction of
chemomechanical force with no need for specific protein-protein interactions, and
that proteins can be removed from DNA through active disruption mechanisms that
act on a transition state intermediate as they are pushed from one nonspecific
site to the next.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09561 
PMCID: PMC3230117
PMID: 21107319  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):921-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09576. Epub 2010 Nov 10.

Light-avoidance-mediating photoreceptors tile the Drosophila larval body wall.

Xiang Y(1), Yuan Q, Vogt N, Looger LL, Jan LY, Jan YN.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Departments of Physiology, Biochemistry, and 
Biophysics, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, California
94158, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):900-1.

Photoreceptors for visual perception, phototaxis or light avoidance are typically
clustered in eyes or related structures such as the Bolwig organ of Drosophila
larvae. Unexpectedly, we found that the class IV dendritic arborization neurons
of Drosophila melanogaster larvae respond to ultraviolet, violet and blue light, 
and are major mediators of light avoidance, particularly at high intensities.
These class IV dendritic arborization neurons, which are present in every body
segment, have dendrites tiling the larval body wall nearly completely without
redundancy. Dendritic illumination activates class IV dendritic arborization
neurons. These novel photoreceptors use phototransduction machinery distinct from
other photoreceptors in Drosophila and enable larvae to sense light exposure over
their entire bodies and move out of danger.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09576 
PMCID: PMC3026603
PMID: 21068723  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


61. Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):815-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09632.

A phylogenetically based transcriptome age index mirrors ontogenetic divergence
patterns.

Domazet-Lošo T(1), Tautz D.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Evolutionsbiologie, August-Thienemannstrasse 2, 24306 
Plön, Germany. tdomazet@irb.hr

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):768-9.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Feb;12(2):76.

Parallels between phylogeny and ontogeny have been discussed for almost two
centuries, and a number of theories have been proposed to explain such patterns. 
Especially elusive is the phylotypic stage, a phase during development where
species within a phylum are particularly similar to each other. Although this has
formerly been interpreted as a recapitulation of phylogeny, it is now thought to 
reflect an ontogenetic progression phase, where strong constraints on
developmental regulation and gene interactions exist. Several studies have shown 
that genes expressed during this stage evolve at a slower rate, but it has so far
not been possible to derive an unequivocal molecular signature associated with
this stage. Here we use a combination of phylostratigraphy and stage-specific
gene expression data to generate a cumulative index that reflects the
evolutionary age of the transcriptome at given ontogenetic stages. Using
zebrafish ontogeny and adult development as a model, we find that the phylotypic 
stage does indeed express the oldest transcriptome set and that younger sets are 
expressed during early and late development, thus faithfully mirroring the
hourglass model of morphological divergence. Reproductively active animals show
the youngest transcriptome, with major differences between males and females.
Notably, ageing animals express increasingly older genes. Comparisons with
similar data sets from flies and nematodes show that this pattern occurs across
phyla. Our results indicate that an old transcriptome marks the phylotypic phase 
and that phylogenetic differences at other ontogenetic stages correlate with the 
expression of newly evolved genes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09632 
PMID: 21150997  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):811-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09634.

Gene expression divergence recapitulates the developmental hourglass model.

Kalinka AT(1), Varga KM, Gerrard DT, Preibisch S, Corcoran DL, Jarrells J, Ohler 
U, Bergman CM, Tomancak P.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics, Pfotenhauerstr.
108, 01307 Dresden, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):768-9.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Feb;12(2):76.

The observation that animal morphology tends to be conserved during the embryonic
phylotypic period (a period of maximal similarity between the species within each
animal phylum) led to the proposition that embryogenesis diverges more
extensively early and late than in the middle, known as the hourglass model. This
pattern of conservation is thought to reflect a major constraint on the evolution
of animal body plans. Despite a wealth of morphological data confirming that
there is often remarkable divergence in the early and late embryos of species
from the same phylum, it is not yet known to what extent gene expression
evolution, which has a central role in the elaboration of different animal forms,
underpins the morphological hourglass pattern. Here we address this question
using species-specific microarrays designed from six sequenced Drosophila species
separated by up to 40 million years. We quantify divergence at different times
during embryogenesis, and show that expression is maximally conserved during the 
arthropod phylotypic period. By fitting different evolutionary models to each
gene, we show that at each time point more than 80% of genes fit best to models
incorporating stabilizing selection, and that for genes whose evolutionarily
optimal expression level is the same across all species, selective constraint is 
maximized during the phylotypic period. The genes that conform most to the
hourglass pattern are involved in key developmental processes. These results
indicate that natural selection acts to conserve patterns of gene expression
during mid-embryogenesis, and provide a genome-wide insight into the molecular
basis of the hourglass pattern of developmental evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09634 
PMID: 21150996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):807-10. doi: 10.1038/nature09636.

Outer-core compositional stratification from observed core wave speed profiles.

Helffrich G(1), Kaneshima S.

Author information: 
(1)Earthquake Research Institute, University of Tokyo, 1-1-1 Yayoi, Bunkyo-ku,
Tokyo 113-0032, Japan. george.helffrich@bris.ac.uk

Light elements must be present in the nearly pure iron core of the Earth to match
the remotely observed properties of the outer and inner cores. Crystallization of
the inner core excludes light elements from the solid, concentrating them in
liquid near the inner-core boundary that potentially rises and collects at the
top of the core, and this may have a seismically observable signal. Here we
present array-based observations of seismic waves sensitive to this part of the
core whose wave speeds require there to be radial compositional variation in the 
topmost 300 km of the outer core. The velocity profile significantly departs from
that of compression of a homogeneous liquid. Total light-element enrichment is up
to five weight per cent at the top of the core if modelled in the Fe-O-S system. 
The stratification suggests the existence of a subadiabatic temperature gradient 
at the top of the outer core.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09636 
PMID: 21150995 


64. Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):803-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09618.

Ice-sheet acceleration driven by melt supply variability.

Schoof C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Ocean Sciences, University of British Columbia, 6339
Stores Road, Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z4, Canada. cschoof@eos.ubc.ca

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):776-7.

Increased ice velocities in Greenland are contributing significantly to eustatic 
sea level rise. Faster ice flow has been associated with ice-ocean interactions
in water-terminating outlet glaciers and with increased surface meltwater supply 
to the ice-sheet bed inland. Observed correlations between surface melt and ice
acceleration have raised the possibility of a positive feedback in which surface 
melting and accelerated dynamic thinning reinforce one another, suggesting that
overall warming could lead to accelerated mass loss. Here I show that it is not
simply mean surface melt but an increase in water input variability that drives
faster ice flow. Glacier sliding responds to melt indirectly through changes in
basal water pressure, with observations showing that water under glaciers drains 
through channels at low pressure or through interconnected cavities at high
pressure. Using a model that captures the dynamic switching between channel and
cavity drainage modes, I show that channelization and glacier deceleration rather
than acceleration occur above a critical rate of water flow. Higher rates of
steady water supply can therefore suppress rather than enhance dynamic thinning, 
indicating that the melt/dynamic thinning feedback is not universally
operational. Short-term increases in water input are, however, accommodated by
the drainage system through temporary spikes in water pressure. It is these
spikes that lead to ice acceleration, which is therefore driven by strong diurnal
melt cycles and an increase in rain and surface lake drainage events rather than 
an increase in mean melt supply.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09618 
PMID: 21150994 


65. Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):796-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09601.

A lower limit of Δz > 0.06 for the duration of the reionization epoch.

Bowman JD(1), Rogers AE.

Author information: 
(1)Arizona State University, School of Earth and Space Exploration, Tempe,
Arizona 85287, USA. judd.bowman@asu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):772-3.

Observations of the 21-centimetre line of atomic hydrogen in the early Universe
directly probe the history of the reionization of the gas between galaxies. The
observations are challenging, though, because of the low expected signal strength
(∼10 mK), and contamination by strong (>100 K) foreground synchrotron emission in
the Milky Way and extragalactic continuum sources. If reionization happened
rapidly, there should be a characteristic signature visible against the smooth
foreground in an all-sky spectrum. Here we report an all-sky spectrum between 100
and 200 MHz, corresponding to the redshift range 6 < z < 13 for the 21-centimetre
line. The data exclude a rapid reionization timescale of Δz < 0.06 at the 95%
confidence level.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09601 
PMID: 21150993 


66. Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):E6-7; discussion E7-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09154.

Global systematics of arc volcano position.

England PC(1), Katz RF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3PR, UK.
philip.england@earth.ox.ac.uk

Comment on
    Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):694-7.

Global systematics in the location of volcanic arcs above subduction zones are
widely considered to be a clue to the melting processes that occur at depth, and 
the locations of the arcs have often been explained in terms of the release of
hydrous fluids near the top of the subducting slab (see, for example, refs 3-6). 
Grove et al. conclude that arc volcano location is controlled by melting in the
mantle at temperatures above the water-saturated upper-mantle solidus and below
the upper limit of stability of the mineral chlorite and in particular, that the 
arc fronts lie directly above the shallowest point of such melt regions in the
mantle. Here we show that this conclusion is incorrect because the calculated arc
locations of Grove et al. are in error owing to the inadequate spatial resolution
of their numerical models, and because the agreement that they find between
predicted and observed systematics arises from a spurious correlation between
calculated arc location and slab dip. A more informative conclusion to draw from 
their experiments is that the limits of chlorite stability (figure 1b of ref. 7) 
cannot explain the global systematics in the depth to the slab beneath the
sharply localized arc fronts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09154 
PMID: 21150944 


67. Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):834-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09583. Epub 2010 Nov 24.

Calcium-dependent phospholipid scrambling by TMEM16F.

Suzuki J(1), Umeda M, Sims PJ, Nagata S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Chemistry, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto
University, Yoshida, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2013 Nov;23(11):1247-8.

In all animal cells, phospholipids are asymmetrically distributed between the
outer and inner leaflets of the plasma membrane. This asymmetrical phospholipid
distribution is disrupted in various biological systems. For example, when blood 
platelets are activated, they expose phosphatidylserine (PtdSer) to trigger the
clotting system. The PtdSer exposure is believed to be mediated by
Ca(2+)-dependent phospholipid scramblases that transport phospholipids
bidirectionally, but its molecular mechanism is still unknown. Here we show that 
TMEM16F (transmembrane protein 16F) is an essential component for the
Ca(2+)-dependent exposure of PtdSer on the cell surface. When a mouse B-cell
line, Ba/F3, was treated with a Ca(2+) ionophore under low-Ca(2+) conditions, it 
reversibly exposed PtdSer. Using this property, we established a Ba/F3 subline
that strongly exposed PtdSer by repetitive fluorescence-activated cell sorting. A
complementary DNA library was constructed from the subline, and a cDNA that
caused Ba/F3 to expose PtdSer spontaneously was identified by expression cloning.
The cDNA encoded a constitutively active mutant of TMEM16F, a protein with eight 
transmembrane segments. Wild-type TMEM16F was localized on the plasma membrane
and conferred Ca(2+)-dependent scrambling of phospholipids. A patient with Scott 
syndrome, which results from a defect in phospholipid scrambling activity, was
found to carry a mutation at a splice-acceptor site of the gene encoding TMEM16F,
causing the premature termination of the protein.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09583 
PMID: 21107324  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):799-802. doi: 10.1038/nature09539. Epub 2010 Nov 24.

Snapshots of cooperative atomic motions in the optical suppression of charge
density waves.

Eichberger M(1), Schäfer H, Krumova M, Beyer M, Demsar J, Berger H, Moriena G,
Sciaini G, Miller RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Physics Department and Center of Applied Photonics and Zukunftskolleg,
University of Konstanz, D-78457 Konstanz, Germany.

Macroscopic quantum phenomena such as high-temperature superconductivity,
colossal magnetoresistance, ferrimagnetism and ferromagnetism arise from a
delicate balance of different interactions among electrons, phonons and spins on 
the nanoscale. The study of the interplay among these various degrees of freedom 
in strongly coupled electron-lattice systems is thus crucial to their
understanding and for optimizing their properties. Charge-density-wave (CDW)
materials, with their inherent modulation of the electron density and associated 
periodic lattice distortion, represent ideal model systems for the study of such 
highly cooperative phenomena. With femtosecond time-resolved techniques, it is
possible to observe these interactions directly by abruptly perturbing the
electronic distribution while keeping track of energy relaxation pathways and
coupling strengths among the different subsystems. Numerous time-resolved
experiments have been performed on CDWs, probing the dynamics of the electronic
subsystem. However, the dynamics of the periodic lattice distortion have been
only indirectly inferred. Here we provide direct atomic-level information on the 
structural dynamics by using femtosecond electron diffraction to study the quasi 
two-dimensional CDW system 1T-TaS(2). Effectively, we have directly observed the 
atomic motions that result from the optically induced change in the electronic
spatial distribution. The periodic lattice distortion, which has an amplitude of 
∼0.1 Å, is suppressed by about 20% on a timescale (∼250 femtoseconds) comparable 
to half the period of the corresponding collective mode. These highly
cooperative, electronically driven atomic motions are accompanied by a rapid
electron-phonon energy transfer (∼350 femtoseconds) and are followed by fast
recovery of the CDW (∼4 picoseconds). The degree of cooperativity in the observed
structural dynamics is remarkable and illustrates the importance of obtaining
atomic-level perspectives of the processes directing the physics of strongly
correlated systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09539 
PMID: 21107321 


69. Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):824-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09557. Epub 2010 Nov 21.

Tumour vascularization via endothelial differentiation of glioblastoma stem-like 
cells.

Ricci-Vitiani L(1), Pallini R, Biffoni M, Todaro M, Invernici G, Cenci T, Maira
G, Parati EA, Stassi G, Larocca LM, De Maria R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology, Oncology and Molecular Medicine, Istituto Superiore 
di Sanità, Viale Regina Elena 299, Rome 00161, Italy.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 8;477(7363):238.
    Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):432.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Jan;12(1):3.
    Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):770-1.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Jan;11(1):4.

Glioblastoma is a highly angiogenetic malignancy, the neoformed vessels of which 
are thought to arise by sprouting of pre-existing brain capillaries. The recent
demonstration that a population of glioblastoma stem-like cells (GSCs) maintains 
glioblastomas indicates that the progeny of these cells may not be confined to
the neural lineage. Normal neural stem cells are able to differentiate into
functional endothelial cells. The connection between neural stem cells and the
endothelial compartment seems to be critical in glioblastoma, where cancer stem
cells closely interact with the vascular niche and promote angiogenesis through
the release of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and stromal-derived
factor 1 (refs 5-9). Here we show that a variable number (range 20-90%, mean
60.7%) of endothelial cells in glioblastoma carry the same genomic alteration as 
tumour cells, indicating that a significant portion of the vascular endothelium
has a neoplastic origin. The vascular endothelium contained a subset of
tumorigenic cells that produced highly vascularized anaplastic tumours with areas
of vasculogenic mimicry in immunocompromised mice. In vitro culture of GSCs in
endothelial conditions generated progeny with phenotypic and functional features 
of endothelial cells. Likewise, orthotopic or subcutaneous injection of GSCs in
immunocompromised mice produced tumour xenografts, the vessels of which were
primarily composed of human endothelial cells. Selective targeting of endothelial
cells generated by GSCs in mouse xenografts resulted in tumour reduction and
degeneration, indicating the functional relevance of the GSC-derived endothelial 
vessels. These findings describe a new mechanism for tumour vasculogenesis and
may explain the presence of cancer-derived endothelial-like cells in several
malignancies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09557 
PMID: 21102434  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):829-33. doi: 10.1038/nature09624. Epub 2010 Nov 21.

Glioblastoma stem-like cells give rise to tumour endothelium.

Wang R(1), Chadalavada K, Wilshire J, Kowalik U, Hovinga KE, Geber A, Fligelman
B, Leversha M, Brennan C, Tabar V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Jan;11(1):4.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Jan;12(1):3.
    Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):770-1.

Glioblastoma (GBM) is among the most aggressive of human cancers. A key feature
of GBMs is the extensive network of abnormal vasculature characterized by
glomeruloid structures and endothelial hyperplasia. Yet the mechanisms of
angiogenesis and the origin of tumour endothelial cells remain poorly defined.
Here we demonstrate that a subpopulation of endothelial cells within
glioblastomas harbour the same somatic mutations identified within tumour cells, 
such as amplification of EGFR and chromosome 7. We additionally demonstrate that 
the stem-cell-like CD133(+) fraction includes a subset of vascular
endothelial-cadherin (CD144)-expressing cells that show characteristics of
endothelial progenitors capable of maturation into endothelial cells. Extensive
in vitro and in vivo lineage analyses, including single cell clonal studies,
further show that a subpopulation of the CD133(+) stem-like cell fraction is
multipotent and capable of differentiation along tumour and endothelial lineages,
possibly via an intermediate CD133(+)/CD144(+) progenitor cell. The findings are 
supported by genetic studies of specific exons selected from The Cancer Genome
Atlas, quantitative FISH and comparative genomic hybridization data that
demonstrate identical genomic profiles in the CD133(+) tumour cells, their
endothelial progenitor derivatives and mature endothelium. Exposure to the
clinical anti-angiogenesis agent bevacizumab or to a γ-secretase inhibitor as
well as knockdown shRNA studies demonstrate that blocking VEGF or silencing
VEGFR2 inhibits the maturation of tumour endothelial progenitors into endothelium
but not the differentiation of CD133(+) cells into endothelial progenitors,
whereas γ-secretase inhibition or NOTCH1 silencing blocks the transition into
endothelial progenitors. These data may provide new perspectives on the
mechanisms of failure of anti-angiogenesis inhibitors currently in use. The
lineage plasticity and capacity to generate tumour vasculature of the putative
cancer stem cells within glioblastoma are novel findings that provide new insight
into the biology of gliomas and the definition of cancer stemness, as well as the
mechanisms of tumour neo-angiogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09624 
PMID: 21102433  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):790-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09472. Epub 2010 Nov 17.

Quantitative reactivity profiling predicts functional cysteines in proteomes.

Weerapana E(1), Wang C, Simon GM, Richter F, Khare S, Dillon MB, Bachovchin DA,
Mowen K, Baker D, Cravatt BF.

Author information: 
(1)The Skaggs Institute for Chemical Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, La 
Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Cysteine is the most intrinsically nucleophilic amino acid in proteins, where its
reactivity is tuned to perform diverse biochemical functions. The absence of a
consensus sequence that defines functional cysteines in proteins has hindered
their discovery and characterization. Here we describe a proteomics method to
profile quantitatively the intrinsic reactivity of cysteine residues en masse
directly in native biological systems. Hyper-reactivity was a rare feature among 
cysteines and it was found to specify a wide range of activities, including
nucleophilic and reductive catalysis and sites of oxidative modification.
Hyper-reactive cysteines were identified in several proteins of uncharacterized
function, including a residue conserved across eukaryotic phylogeny that we show 
is required for yeast viability and is involved in iron-sulphur protein
biogenesis. We also demonstrate that quantitative reactivity profiling can form
the basis for screening and functional assignment of cysteines in computationally
designed proteins, where it discriminated catalytically active from inactive
cysteine hydrolase designs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09472 
PMCID: PMC3058684
PMID: 21085121  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):779-83. doi: 10.1038/nature09605. Epub 2010 Nov 17.

Cap binding and immune evasion revealed by Lassa nucleoprotein structure.

Qi X(1), Lan S, Wang W, Schelde LM, Dong H, Wallat GD, Ly H, Liang Y, Dong C.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences Research Complex, School of Chemistry, University of St
Andrews, North Haugh, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9ST, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):773-5.

Lassa virus, the causative agent of Lassa fever, causes thousands of deaths
annually and is a biological threat agent, for which there is no vaccine and
limited therapy. The nucleoprotein (NP) of Lassa virus has essential roles in
viral RNA synthesis and immune suppression, the molecular mechanisms of which are
poorly understood. Here we report the crystal structure of Lassa virus NP at
1.80 Å resolution, which reveals amino (N)- and carboxy (C)-terminal domains with
structures unlike any of the reported viral NPs. The N domain folds into a novel 
structure with a deep cavity for binding the m7GpppN cap structure that is
required for viral RNA transcription, whereas the C domain contains 3'-5'
exoribonuclease activity involved in suppressing interferon induction. To our
knowledge this is the first X-ray crystal structure solved for an arenaviral NP, 
which reveals its unexpected functions and indicates unique mechanisms in cap
binding and immune evasion. These findings provide great potential for vaccine
and drug development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09605 
PMCID: PMC3057469
PMID: 21085117  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):784-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09516. Epub 2010 Nov 14.

Structure of a bacterial ribonuclease P holoenzyme in complex with tRNA.

Reiter NJ(1), Osterman A, Torres-Larios A, Swinger KK, Pan T, Mondragón A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biosciences, Northwestern University, Evanston,
Illinois 60208, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 Mar;12(3):135.

Ribonuclease (RNase) P is the universal ribozyme responsible for 5'-end tRNA
processing. We report the crystal structure of the Thermotoga maritima RNase P
holoenzyme in complex with tRNA(Phe). The 154 kDa complex consists of a large
catalytic RNA (P RNA), a small protein cofactor and a mature tRNA. The structure 
shows that RNA-RNA recognition occurs through shape complementarity, specific
intermolecular contacts and base-pairing interactions. Soaks with a pre-tRNA 5'
leader sequence with and without metal help to identify the 5' substrate path and
potential catalytic metal ions. The protein binds on top of a universally
conserved structural module in P RNA and interacts with the leader, but not with 
the mature tRNA. The active site is composed of phosphate backbone moieties, a
universally conserved uridine nucleobase, and at least two catalytically
important metal ions. The active site structure and conserved RNase P-tRNA
contacts suggest a universal mechanism of catalysis by RNase P.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09516 
PMCID: PMC3058908
PMID: 21076397  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):819-23. doi: 10.1038/nature09551. Epub 2010 Nov 14.

Interdependence of behavioural variability and response to small stimuli in
bacteria.

Park H(1), Pontius W, Guet CC, Marko JF, Emonet T, Cluzel P.

Author information: 
(1)The James Franck Institute, The Institute for Biophysical Dynamics, and The
Department of Physics, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

The chemotaxis signalling network in Escherichia coli that controls the
locomotion of bacteria is a classic model system for signal transduction. This
pathway modulates the behaviour of flagellar motors to propel bacteria towards
sources of chemical attractants. Although this system relaxes to a steady state
in response to environmental changes, the signalling events within the chemotaxis
network are noisy and cause large temporal variations of the motor behaviour even
in the absence of stimulus. That the same signalling network governs both
behavioural variability and cellular response raises the question of whether
these two traits are independent. Here, we experimentally establish a
fluctuation-response relationship in the chemotaxis system of living bacteria.
Using this relationship, we demonstrate the possibility of inferring the cellular
response from the behavioural variability measured before stimulus. In monitoring
the pre- and post-stimulus switching behaviour of individual bacterial motors, we
found that variability scales linearly with the response time for different
functioning states of the cell. This study highlights that the fundamental
relationship between fluctuation and response is not constrained to physical
systems at thermodynamic equilibrium but is extensible to living cells. Such a
relationship not only implies that behavioural variability and cellular response 
can be coupled traits, but it also provides a general framework within which we
can examine how the selection of a network design shapes this interdependence.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09551 
PMCID: PMC3230254
PMID: 21076396  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):839-43. doi: 10.1038/nature09586.

Impaired hydroxylation of 5-methylcytosine in myeloid cancers with mutant TET2.

Ko M(1), Huang Y, Jankowska AM, Pape UJ, Tahiliani M, Bandukwala HS, An J,
Lamperti ED, Koh KP, Ganetzky R, Liu XS, Aravind L, Agarwal S, Maciejewski JP,
Rao A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, Immune Disease Institute and 
Program in Cellular and Molecular Medicine, Children’s Hospital Boston, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.

TET2 is a close relative of TET1, an enzyme that converts 5-methylcytosine (5mC) 
to 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) in DNA. The gene encoding TET2 resides at
chromosome 4q24, in a region showing recurrent microdeletions and copy-neutral
loss of heterozygosity (CN-LOH) in patients with diverse myeloid malignancies.
Somatic TET2 mutations are frequently observed in myelodysplastic syndromes
(MDS), myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN), MDS/MPN overlap syndromes including
chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia (CMML), acute myeloid leukaemias (AML) and
secondary AML (sAML). We show here that TET2 mutations associated with myeloid
malignancies compromise catalytic activity. Bone marrow samples from patients
with TET2 mutations displayed uniformly low levels of 5hmC in genomic DNA
compared to bone marrow samples from healthy controls. Moreover, small hairpin
RNA (shRNA)-mediated depletion of Tet2 in mouse haematopoietic precursors skewed 
their differentiation towards monocyte/macrophage lineages in culture. There was 
no significant difference in DNA methylation between bone marrow samples from
patients with high 5hmC versus healthy controls, but samples from patients with
low 5hmC showed hypomethylation relative to controls at the majority of
differentially methylated CpG sites. Our results demonstrate that Tet2 is
important for normal myelopoiesis, and suggest that disruption of TET2 enzymatic 
activity favours myeloid tumorigenesis. Measurement of 5hmC levels in myeloid
malignancies may prove valuable as a diagnostic and prognostic tool, to tailor
therapies and assess responses to anticancer drugs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09586 
PMCID: PMC3003755
PMID: 21057493  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):844-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09556. Epub 2010 Nov 3.

Design, function and structure of a monomeric ClC transporter.

Robertson JL(1), Kolmakova-Partensky L, Miller C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Brandeis
University, Waltham, Massachusetts 02454, USA.

Channels and transporters of the ClC family cause the transmembrane movement of
inorganic anions in service of a variety of biological tasks, from the
unusual-the generation of the kilowatt pulses with which electric fish stun their
prey-to the quotidian-the acidification of endosomes, vacuoles and lysosomes. The
homodimeric architecture of ClC proteins, initially inferred from single-molecule
studies of an elasmobranch Cl(-) channel and later confirmed by crystal
structures of bacterial Cl(-)/H(+) antiporters, is apparently universal.
Moreover, the basic machinery that enables ion movement through these
proteins-the aqueous pores for anion diffusion in the channels and the
ion-coupling chambers that coordinate Cl(-) and H(+) antiport in the
transporters-are contained wholly within each subunit of the homodimer. The
near-normal function of a bacterial ClC transporter straitjacketed by covalent
crosslinks across the dimer interface and the behaviour of a concatemeric human
homologue argue that the transport cycle resides within each subunit and does not
require rigid-body rearrangements between subunits. However, this evidence is
only inferential, and because examples are known in which quaternary
rearrangements of extramembrane ClC domains that contribute to dimerization
modulate transport activity, we cannot declare as definitive a
'parallel-pathways' picture in which the homodimer consists of two single-subunit
transporters operating independently. A strong prediction of such a view is that 
it should in principle be possible to obtain a monomeric ClC. Here we exploit the
known structure of a ClC Cl(-)/H(+) exchanger, ClC-ec1 from Escherichia coli, to 
design mutants that destabilize the dimer interface while preserving both the
structure and the transport function of individual subunits. The results
demonstrate that the ClC subunit alone is the basic functional unit for transport
and that cross-subunit interaction is not required for Cl(-)/H(+) exchange in ClC
transporters.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09556 
PMCID: PMC3057488
PMID: 21048711  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):713-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09547.

Head swivel on the ribosome facilitates translocation by means of intra-subunit
tRNA hybrid sites.

Ratje AH(1), Loerke J, Mikolajka A, Brünner M, Hildebrand PW, Starosta AL,
Dönhöfer A, Connell SR, Fucini P, Mielke T, Whitford PC, Onuchic JN, Yu Y,
Sanbonmatsu KY, Hartmann RK, Penczek PA, Wilson DN, Spahn CM.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Medizinische Physik und Biophysik, Charite - Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, Ziegelstrasse 5-9, 10117-Berlin, Germany.

The elongation cycle of protein synthesis involves the delivery of
aminoacyl-transfer RNAs to the aminoacyl-tRNA-binding site (A site) of the
ribosome, followed by peptide-bond formation and translocation of the tRNAs
through the ribosome to reopen the A site. The translocation reaction is
catalysed by elongation factor G (EF-G) in a GTP-dependent manner. Despite the
availability of structures of various EF-G-ribosome complexes, the precise
mechanism by which tRNAs move through the ribosome still remains unclear. Here we
use multiparticle cryoelectron microscopy analysis to resolve two previously
unseen subpopulations within Thermus thermophilus EF-G-ribosome complexes at
subnanometre resolution, one of them with a partly translocated tRNA. Comparison 
of these substates reveals that translocation of tRNA on the 30S subunit
parallels the swivelling of the 30S head and is coupled to unratcheting of the
30S body. Because the tRNA maintains contact with the peptidyl-tRNA-binding site 
(P site) on the 30S head and simultaneously establishes interaction with the exit
site (E site) on the 30S platform, a novel intra-subunit 'pe/E' hybrid state is
formed. This state is stabilized by domain IV of EF-G, which interacts with the
swivelled 30S-head conformation. These findings provide direct structural and
mechanistic insight into the 'missing link' in terms of tRNA intermediates
involved in the universally conserved translocation process.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09547 
PMCID: PMC3272701
PMID: 21124459  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):709-12. doi: 10.1038/nature09555.

Glycoprotein organization of Chikungunya virus particles revealed by X-ray
crystallography.

Voss JE(1), Vaney MC, Duquerroy S, Vonrhein C, Girard-Blanc C, Crublet E,
Thompson A, Bricogne G, Rey FA.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Pasteur, Département de Virologie, Unité de Virologie Structurale, 25
rue du Dr Roux, 75724 Paris Cedex 15, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):645-6.

Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) is an emerging mosquito-borne alphavirus that has
caused widespread outbreaks of debilitating human disease in the past five years.
CHIKV invasion of susceptible cells is mediated by two viral glycoproteins, E1
and E2, which carry the main antigenic determinants and form an icosahedral shell
at the virion surface. Glycoprotein E2, derived from furin cleavage of the p62
precursor into E3 and E2, is responsible for receptor binding, and E1 for
membrane fusion. In the context of a concerted multidisciplinary effort to
understand the biology of CHIKV, here we report the crystal structures of the
precursor p62-E1 heterodimer and of the mature E3-E2-E1 glycoprotein complexes.
The resulting atomic models allow the synthesis of a wealth of genetic,
biochemical, immunological and electron microscopy data accumulated over the
years on alphaviruses in general. This combination yields a detailed picture of
the functional architecture of the 25 MDa alphavirus surface glycoprotein shell. 
Together with the accompanying report on the structure of the Sindbis virus E2-E1
heterodimer at acidic pH (ref. 3), this work also provides new insight into the
acid-triggered conformational change on the virus particle and its inbuilt
inhibition mechanism in the immature complex.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09555 
PMID: 21124458  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):705-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09546.

Structural changes of envelope proteins during alphavirus fusion.

Li L(1), Jose J, Xiang Y, Kuhn RJ, Rossmann MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue University, 915 W. State Street,
West Lafayette, Indiana 47907-2054, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):645-6.

Alphaviruses are enveloped RNA viruses that have a diameter of about 700 Å and
can be lethal human pathogens. Entry of virus into host cells by endocytosis is
controlled by two envelope glycoproteins, E1 and E2. The E2-E1 heterodimers form 
80 trimeric spikes on the icosahedral virus surface, 60 with quasi-three-fold
symmetry and 20 coincident with the icosahedral three-fold axes arranged with T =
4 quasi-symmetry. The E1 glycoprotein has a hydrophobic fusion loop at one end
and is responsible for membrane fusion. The E2 protein is responsible for
receptor binding and protects the fusion loop at neutral pH. The lower pH in the 
endosome induces the virions to undergo an irreversible conformational change in 
which E2 and E1 dissociate and E1 forms homotrimers, triggering fusion of the
viral membrane with the endosomal membrane and then releasing the viral genome
into the cytoplasm. Here we report the structure of an alphavirus spike,
crystallized at low pH, representing an intermediate in the fusion process and
clarifying the maturation process. The trimer of E2-E1 in the crystal structure
is similar to the spikes in the neutral pH virus except that the E2 middle region
is disordered, exposing the fusion loop. The amino- and carboxy-terminal domains 
of E2 each form immunoglobulin-like folds, consistent with the receptor
attachment properties of E2.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09546 
PMCID: PMC3057476
PMID: 21124457  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):701-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09595.

Lkb1 regulates quiescence and metabolic homeostasis of haematopoietic stem cells.

Gan B(1), Hu J, Jiang S, Liu Y, Sahin E, Zhuang L, Fletcher-Sananikone E, Colla
S, Wang YA, Chin L, Depinho RA.

Author information: 
(1)Belfer Institute for Applied Cancer Science, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2011 Jan 5;13(1):8-10.
    Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):644-5.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 Jan;12(1):4.

The capacity to fine-tune cellular bioenergetics with the demands of stem-cell
maintenance and regeneration is central to normal development and ageing, and to 
organismal survival during periods of acute stress. How energy metabolism and
stem-cell homeostatic processes are coordinated is not well understood. Lkb1 acts
as an evolutionarily conserved regulator of cellular energy metabolism in
eukaryotic cells and functions as the major upstream kinase to phosphorylate
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and 12 other AMPK-related kinases. Whether
Lkb1 regulates stem-cell maintenance remains unknown. Here we show that Lkb1 has 
an essential role in haematopoietic stem cell (HSC) homeostasis. We demonstrate
that ablation of Lkb1 in adult mice results in severe pancytopenia and subsequent
lethality. Loss of Lkb1 leads to impaired survival and escape from quiescence of 
HSCs, resulting in exhaustion of the HSC pool and a marked reduction of HSC
repopulating potential in vivo. Lkb1 deletion has an impact on cell proliferation
in HSCs, but not on more committed compartments, pointing to context-specific
functions for Lkb1 in haematopoiesis. The adverse impact of Lkb1 deletion on
haematopoiesis was predominantly cell-autonomous and mTOR complex 1
(mTORC1)-independent, and involves multiple mechanisms converging on
mitochondrial apoptosis and possibly downregulation of PGC-1 coactivators and
their transcriptional network, which have critical roles in mitochondrial
biogenesis and function. Thus, Lkb1 serves as an essential regulator of HSCs and 
haematopoiesis, and more generally, points to the critical importance of coupling
energy metabolism and stem-cell homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09595 
PMCID: PMC3058342
PMID: 21124456  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):686-90. doi: 10.1038/nature09554.

A dimorphic pheromone circuit in Drosophila from sensory input to descending
output.

Ruta V(1), Datta SR, Vasconcelos ML, Freeland J, Looger LL, Axel R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics and the Howard Hughes
Medical Institute, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New
York, New York 10032, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):638-40.

Drosophila show innate olfactory-driven behaviours that are observed in naive
animals without previous learning or experience, suggesting that the neural
circuits that mediate these behaviours are genetically programmed. Despite the
numerical simplicity of the fly nervous system, features of the anatomical
organization of the fly brain often confound the delineation of these circuits.
Here we identify a neural circuit responsive to cVA, a pheromone that elicits
sexually dimorphic behaviours. We have combined neural tracing using an improved 
photoactivatable green fluorescent protein (PA-GFP) with electrophysiology,
optical imaging and laser-mediated microlesioning to map this circuit from the
activation of sensory neurons in the antennae to the excitation of descending
neurons in the ventral nerve cord. This circuit is concise and minimally
comprises four neurons, connected by three synapses. Three of these neurons are
overtly dimorphic and identify a male-specific neuropil that integrates inputs
from multiple sensory systems and sends outputs to the ventral nerve cord. This
neural pathway suggests a means by which a single pheromone can elicit different 
behaviours in the two sexes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09554 
PMID: 21124455  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):681-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09617.

The redox state of arc mantle using Zn/Fe systematics.

Lee CT(1), Luffi P, Le Roux V, Dasgupta R, Albaréde F, Leeman WP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, Rice University, Houston, Texas 77005, USA.

Many arc lavas are more oxidized than mid-ocean-ridge basalts and subduction
introduces oxidized components into the mantle. As a consequence, the sub-arc
mantle wedge is widely believed to be oxidized. The Fe oxidation state of sub-arc
mantle is, however, difficult to determine directly, and debate persists as to
whether this oxidation is intrinsic to the mantle source. Here we show that
Zn/Fe(T) (where Fe(T) = Fe(2+) + Fe(3+)) is redox-sensitive and retains a memory 
of the valence state of Fe in primary arc basalts and their mantle sources.
During melting of mantle peridotite, Fe(2+) and Zn behave similarly, but because 
Fe(3+) is more incompatible than Fe(2+), melts generated in oxidized environments
have low Zn/Fe(T). Primitive arc magmas have identical Zn/Fe(T) to
mid-ocean-ridge basalts, suggesting that primary mantle melts in arcs and ridges 
have similar Fe oxidation states. The constancy of Zn/Fe(T) during early
differentiation involving olivine requires that Fe(3+)/Fe(T) remains low in the
magma. Only after progressive fractionation does Fe(3+)/Fe(T) increase and
stabilize magnetite as a fractionating phase. These results suggest that
subduction of oxidized crustal material may not significantly alter the redox
state of the mantle wedge. Thus, the higher oxidation states of arc lavas must be
in part a consequence of shallow-level differentiation processes, though such
processes remain poorly understood.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09617 
PMID: 21124454 


83. Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):677-80. doi: 10.1038/nature09597.

Fluctuating stripes at the onset of the pseudogap in the high-T(c) superconductor
Bi(2)Sr(2)CaCu(2)O(8+x).

Parker CV(1), Aynajian P, da Silva Neto EH, Pushp A, Ono S, Wen J, Xu Z, Gu G,
Yazdani A.

Author information: 
(1)Joseph Henry Laboratories and Department of Physics, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):643-4.

Doped Mott insulators have a strong propensity to form patterns of holes and
spins often referred to as stripes. In copper oxides, doping also gives rise to
the pseudogap state, which can be transformed into a high-temperature
superconducting state with sufficient doping or by reducing the temperature. A
long-standing issue has been the interplay between the pseudogap, which is
generic to all hole-doped copper oxide superconductors, and stripes, whose static
form occurs in only one family of copper oxides over a narrow range of the phase 
diagram. Here we report observations of the spatial reorganization of electronic 
states with the onset of the pseudogap state in the high-temperature
superconductor Bi(2)Sr(2)CaCu(2)O(8+x), using spectroscopic mapping with a
scanning tunnelling microscope. We find that the onset of the pseudogap phase
coincides with the appearance of electronic patterns that have the predicted
characteristics of fluctuating stripes. As expected, the stripe patterns are
strongest when the hole concentration in the CuO(2) planes is close to 1/8 (per
copper atom). Although they demonstrate that the fluctuating stripes emerge with 
the onset of the pseudogap state and occur over a large part of the phase
diagram, our experiments indicate that the stripes are a consequence of pseudogap
behaviour rather than its cause.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09597 
PMID: 21124453 


84. Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):669-72. doi: 10.1038/nature09596.

A ground-based transmission spectrum of the super-Earth exoplanet GJ 1214b.

Bean JL(1), Kempton EM, Homeier D.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, 60 Garden Street, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):636-7.

In contrast to planets with masses similar to that of Jupiter and higher, the
bulk compositions of planets in the so-called super-Earth regime (masses 2-10
times that of the Earth) cannot be uniquely determined from a measurement of mass
and radius alone. For these planets, there is a degeneracy between the mass and
composition of both the interior and a possible atmosphere in theoretical models.
The recently discovered transiting super-Earth exoplanet GJ 1214b is one example 
of this problem. Three distinct models for the planet that are consistent with
its mass and radius have been suggested. Breaking the degeneracy between these
models requires obtaining constraints on the planet's atmospheric composition.
Here we report a ground-based measurement of the transmission spectrum of GJ
1214b between wavelengths of 780 and 1,000 nm. The lack of features in this
spectrum rules out (at 4.9σ confidence) cloud-free atmospheres composed primarily
of hydrogen. If the planet's atmosphere is hydrogen-dominated, then it must
contain clouds or hazes that are optically thick at the observed wavelengths at
pressures less than 200 mbar. Alternatively, the featureless transmission
spectrum is also consistent with the presence of a dense, water vapour
atmosphere.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09596 
PMID: 21124452 


85. Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):659-63. doi: 10.1038/nature09572.

The Lkb1 metabolic sensor maintains haematopoietic stem cell survival.

Gurumurthy S(1), Xie SZ, Alagesan B, Kim J, Yusuf RZ, Saez B, Tzatsos A, Ozsolak 
F, Milos P, Ferrari F, Park PJ, Shirihai OS, Scadden DT, Bardeesy N.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Center and Center for Regenerative Medicine, Massachusetts General
Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 4;476(7358):114.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2011 Jan 5;13(1):8-10.
    Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):644-5.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 Jan;12(1):4.

Haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) can convert between growth states that have
marked differences in bioenergetic needs. Although often quiescent in adults,
these cells become proliferative upon physiological demand. Balancing HSC
energetics in response to nutrient availability and growth state is poorly
understood, yet essential for the dynamism of the haematopoietic system. Here we 
show that the Lkb1 tumour suppressor is critical for the maintenance of energy
homeostasis in haematopoietic cells. Lkb1 inactivation in adult mice causes loss 
of HSC quiescence followed by rapid depletion of all haematopoietic
subpopulations. Lkb1-deficient bone marrow cells exhibit mitochondrial defects,
alterations in lipid and nucleotide metabolism, and depletion of cellular ATP.
The haematopoietic effects are largely independent of Lkb1 regulation of
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)
signalling. Instead, these data define a central role for Lkb1 in restricting HSC
entry into cell cycle and in broadly maintaining energy homeostasis in
haematopoietic cells through a novel metabolic checkpoint.


PMCID: PMC3037591
PMID: 21124451  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):653-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09571.

Lkb1 regulates cell cycle and energy metabolism in haematopoietic stem cells.

Nakada D(1), Saunders TL, Morrison SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Life Sciences Institute, Center for Stem Cell
Biology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-2216, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2011 Jan 5;13(1):8-10.
    Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):644-5.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 Jan;12(1):4.

Little is known about metabolic regulation in stem cells and how this modulates
tissue regeneration or tumour suppression. We studied the Lkb1 tumour suppressor 
and its substrate AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), kinases that coordinate
metabolism with cell growth. Deletion of the Lkb1 (also called Stk11) gene in
mice caused increased haematopoietic stem cell (HSC) division, rapid HSC
depletion and pancytopenia. HSCs depended more acutely on Lkb1 for cell-cycle
regulation and survival than many other haematopoietic cells. HSC depletion did
not depend on mTOR activation or oxidative stress. Lkb1-deficient HSCs, but not
myeloid progenitors, had reduced mitochondrial membrane potential and ATP levels.
HSCs deficient for two catalytic α-subunits of AMPK (AMPK-deficient HSCs) showed 
similar changes in mitochondrial function but remained able to reconstitute
irradiated mice. Lkb1-deficient HSCs, but not AMPK-deficient HSCs, exhibited
defects in centrosomes and mitotic spindles in culture, and became aneuploid.
Lkb1 is therefore required for HSC maintenance through AMPK-dependent and
AMPK-independent mechanisms, revealing differences in metabolic and cell-cycle
regulation between HSCs and some other haematopoietic progenitors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09571 
PMCID: PMC3059717
PMID: 21124450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):647-52. doi: 10.1038/nature09575.

Impacts of biodiversity on the emergence and transmission of infectious diseases.

Keesing F(1), Belden LK, Daszak P, Dobson A, Harvell CD, Holt RD, Hudson P,
Jolles A, Jones KE, Mitchell CE, Myers SS, Bogich T, Ostfeld RS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Bard College, Annandale, New York 12504, USA.

Current unprecedented declines in biodiversity reduce the ability of ecological
communities to provide many fundamental ecosystem services. Here we evaluate
evidence that reduced biodiversity affects the transmission of infectious
diseases of humans, other animals and plants. In principle, loss of biodiversity 
could either increase or decrease disease transmission. However, mounting
evidence indicates that biodiversity loss frequently increases disease
transmission. In contrast, areas of naturally high biodiversity may serve as a
source pool for new pathogens. Overall, despite many remaining questions, current
evidence indicates that preserving intact ecosystems and their endemic
biodiversity should generally reduce the prevalence of infectious diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09575 
PMID: 21124449  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):691-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09537. Epub 2010 Nov 17.

Acid sensing by the Drosophila olfactory system.

Ai M(1), Min S, Grosjean Y, Leblanc C, Bell R, Benton R, Suh GS.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Neurobiology Program, Skirball Institute of Biomolecular Medicine,
Department of Cell Biology, New York University, School of Medicine, New York,
New York 10016, USA.

The odour of acids has a distinct quality that is perceived as sharp, pungent and
often irritating. How acidity is sensed and translated into an appropriate
behavioural response is poorly understood. Here we describe a functionally
segregated population of olfactory sensory neurons in the fruitfly, Drosophila
melanogaster, that are highly selective for acidity. These olfactory sensory
neurons express IR64a, a member of the recently identified ionotropic receptor
(IR) family of putative olfactory receptors. In vivo calcium imaging showed that 
IR64a+ neurons projecting to the DC4 glomerulus in the antennal lobe are
specifically activated by acids. Flies in which the function of IR64a+ neurons or
the IR64a gene is disrupted had defects in acid-evoked physiological and
behavioural responses, but their responses to non-acidic odorants remained
unaffected. Furthermore, artificial stimulation of IR64a+ neurons elicited
avoidance responses. Taken together, these results identify cellular and
molecular substrates for acid detection in the Drosophila olfactory system and
support a labelled-line mode of acidity coding at the periphery.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09537 
PMCID: PMC3105465
PMID: 21085119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):673-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09610. Epub 2010 Nov 17.

Trapped antihydrogen.

Andresen GB(1), Ashkezari MD, Baquero-Ruiz M, Bertsche W, Bowe PD, Butler E,
Cesar CL, Chapman S, Charlton M, Deller A, Eriksson S, Fajans J, Friesen T,
Fujiwara MC, Gill DR, Gutierrez A, Hangst JS, Hardy WN, Hayden ME, Humphries AJ, 
Hydomako R, Jenkins MJ, Jonsell S, Jørgensen LV, Kurchaninov L, Madsen N, Menary 
S, Nolan P, Olchanski K, Olin A, Povilus A, Pusa P, Robicheaux F, Sarid E, el
Nasr SS, Silveira DM, So C, Storey JW, Thompson RI, van der Werf DP, Wurtele JS, 
Yamazaki Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Aarhus University, DK-8000 Aarhus C,
Denmark.

Antimatter was first predicted in 1931, by Dirac. Work with high-energy
antiparticles is now commonplace, and anti-electrons are used regularly in the
medical technique of positron emission tomography scanning. Antihydrogen, the
bound state of an antiproton and a positron, has been produced at low energies at
CERN (the European Organization for Nuclear Research) since 2002. Antihydrogen is
of interest for use in a precision test of nature's fundamental symmetries. The
charge conjugation/parity/time reversal (CPT) theorem, a crucial part of the
foundation of the standard model of elementary particles and interactions,
demands that hydrogen and antihydrogen have the same spectrum. Given the current 
experimental precision of measurements on the hydrogen atom (about two parts in
10(14) for the frequency of the 1s-to-2s transition), subjecting antihydrogen to 
rigorous spectroscopic examination would constitute a compelling,
model-independent test of CPT. Antihydrogen could also be used to study the
gravitational behaviour of antimatter. However, so far experiments have produced 
antihydrogen that is not confined, precluding detailed study of its structure.
Here we demonstrate trapping of antihydrogen atoms. From the interaction of about
10(7) antiprotons and 7 × 10(8) positrons, we observed 38 annihilation events
consistent with the controlled release of trapped antihydrogen from our magnetic 
trap; the measured background is 1.4 ± 1.4 events. This result opens the door to 
precision measurements on anti-atoms, which can soon be subjected to the same
techniques as developed for hydrogen.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09610 
PMID: 21085118 


90. Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):696-700. doi: 10.1038/nature09536. Epub 2010 Nov 10.

Oxidant stress evoked by pacemaking in dopaminergic neurons is attenuated by
DJ-1.

Guzman JN(1), Sanchez-Padilla J, Wokosin D, Kondapalli J, Ilijic E, Schumacker
PT, Surmeier DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern
University, Chicago, Illinois 60611, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2015 May 21;521(7552):380.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Jan;12(1):6.

Parkinson's disease is a pervasive, ageing-related neurodegenerative disease the 
cardinal motor symptoms of which reflect the loss of a small group of neurons,
the dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc).
Mitochondrial oxidant stress is widely viewed as being responsible for this loss,
but why these particular neurons should be stressed is a mystery. Here we show,
using transgenic mice that expressed a redox-sensitive variant of green
fluorescent protein targeted to the mitochondrial matrix, that the engagement of 
plasma membrane L-type calcium channels during normal autonomous pacemaking
created an oxidant stress that was specific to vulnerable SNc dopaminergic
neurons. The oxidant stress engaged defences that induced transient, mild
mitochondrial depolarization or uncoupling. The mild uncoupling was not affected 
by deletion of cyclophilin D, which is a component of the permeability transition
pore, but was attenuated by genipin and purine nucleotides, which are antagonists
of cloned uncoupling proteins. Knocking out DJ-1 (also known as PARK7 in humans
and Park7 in mice), which is a gene associated with an early-onset form of
Parkinson's disease, downregulated the expression of two uncoupling proteins
(UCP4 (SLC25A27) and UCP5 (SLC25A14)), compromised calcium-induced uncoupling and
increased oxidation of matrix proteins specifically in SNc dopaminergic neurons. 
Because drugs approved for human use can antagonize calcium entry through L-type 
channels, these results point to a novel neuroprotective strategy for both
idiopathic and familial forms of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09536 
PMCID: PMC4465557
PMID: 21068725  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):717-20. doi: 10.1038/nature09488. Epub 2010 Oct 24.

Structure and mechanism of the S component of a bacterial ECF transporter.

Zhang P(1), Wang J, Shi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Lewis Thomas Laboratory, Princeton
University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.

The energy-coupling factor (ECF) transporters, responsible for vitamin uptake in 
prokaryotes, are a unique family of membrane transporters. Each ECF transporter
contains a membrane-embedded, substrate-binding protein (known as the S
component), an energy-coupling module that comprises two ATP-binding proteins
(known as the A and A' components) and a transmembrane protein (known as the T
component). The structure and transport mechanism of the ECF family remain
unknown. Here we report the crystal structure of RibU, the S component of the
ECF-type riboflavin transporter from Staphylococcus aureus at 3.6-Å resolution.
RibU contains six transmembrane segments, adopts a previously unreported
transporter fold and contains a riboflavin molecule bound to the L1 loop and the 
periplasmic portion of transmembrane segments 4-6. Structural analysis reveals
the essential ligand-binding residues, identifies the putative transport path
and, with sequence alignment, uncovers conserved structural features and suggests
potential mechanisms of action among the ECF transporters.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09488 
PMID: 20972419  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Nature. 2010 Dec 2;468(7324):664-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09479. Epub 2010 Sep 29.

U1 snRNP protects pre-mRNAs from premature cleavage and polyadenylation.

Kaida D(1), Berg MG, Younis I, Kasim M, Singh LN, Wan L, Dreyfuss G.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics,
University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
19104-6148, USA.

In eukaryotes, U1 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (snRNP) forms spliceosomes in
equal stoichiometry with U2, U4, U5 and U6 snRNPs; however, its abundance in
human far exceeds that of the other snRNPs. Here we used antisense morpholino
oligonucleotide to U1 snRNA to achieve functional U1 snRNP knockdown in HeLa
cells, and identified accumulated unspliced pre-mRNAs by genomic tiling
microarrays. In addition to inhibiting splicing, U1 snRNP knockdown caused
premature cleavage and polyadenylation in numerous pre-mRNAs at cryptic
polyadenylation signals, frequently in introns near (<5 kilobases) the start of
the transcript. This did not occur when splicing was inhibited with U2 snRNA
antisense morpholino oligonucleotide or the U2-snRNP-inactivating drug
spliceostatin A unless U1 antisense morpholino oligonucleotide was also included.
We further show that U1 snRNA-pre-mRNA base pairing was required to suppress
premature cleavage and polyadenylation from nearby cryptic polyadenylation
signals located in introns. These findings reveal a critical splicing-independent
function for U1 snRNP in protecting the transcriptome, which we propose explains 
its overabundance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09479 
PMCID: PMC2996489
PMID: 20881964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):580-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09621.

Nanoscale architecture of integrin-based cell adhesions.

Kanchanawong P(1), Shtengel G, Pasapera AM, Ramko EB, Davidson MW, Hess HF,
Waterman CM.

Author information: 
(1)National Heart Lung and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 Jan;12(1):4.

Cell adhesions to the extracellular matrix (ECM) are necessary for morphogenesis,
immunity and wound healing. Focal adhesions are multifunctional organelles that
mediate cell-ECM adhesion, force transmission, cytoskeletal regulation and
signalling. Focal adhesions consist of a complex network of trans-plasma-membrane
integrins and cytoplasmic proteins that form a <200-nm plaque linking the ECM to 
the actin cytoskeleton. The complexity of focal adhesion composition and dynamics
implicate an intricate molecular machine. However, focal adhesion molecular
architecture remains unknown. Here we used three-dimensional super-resolution
fluorescence microscopy (interferometric photoactivated localization microscopy) 
to map nanoscale protein organization in focal adhesions. Our results reveal that
integrins and actin are vertically separated by a ∼40-nm focal adhesion core
region consisting of multiple protein-specific strata: a membrane-apposed
integrin signalling layer containing integrin cytoplasmic tails, focal adhesion
kinase and paxillin; an intermediate force-transduction layer containing talin
and vinculin; and an uppermost actin-regulatory layer containing zyxin,
vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein and α-actinin. By localizing amino- and
carboxy-terminally tagged talins, we reveal talin's polarized orientation,
indicative of a role in organizing the focal adhesion strata. The composite
multilaminar protein architecture provides a molecular blueprint for
understanding focal adhesion functions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09621 
PMCID: PMC3046339
PMID: 21107430  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):576-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09594.

Tension directly stabilizes reconstituted kinetochore-microtubule attachments.

Akiyoshi B(1), Sarangapani KK, Powers AF, Nelson CR, Reichow SL, Arellano-Santoyo
H, Gonen T, Ranish JA, Asbury CL, Biggins S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Basic Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle,
Washington 98109, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):518-9.

Kinetochores are macromolecular machines that couple chromosomes to dynamic
microtubule tips during cell division, thereby generating force to segregate the 
chromosomes. Accurate segregation depends on selective stabilization of correct
'bi-oriented' kinetochore-microtubule attachments, which come under tension as
the result of opposing forces exerted by microtubules. Tension is thought to
stabilize these bi-oriented attachments indirectly, by suppressing the
destabilizing activity of a kinase, Aurora B. However, a complete mechanistic
understanding of the role of tension requires reconstitution of
kinetochore-microtubule attachments for biochemical and biophysical analyses in
vitro. Here we show that native kinetochore particles retaining the majority of
kinetochore proteins can be purified from budding yeast and used to reconstitute 
dynamic microtubule attachments. Individual kinetochore particles maintain
load-bearing associations with assembling and disassembling ends of single
microtubules for >30 min, providing a close match to the persistent coupling seen
in vivo between budding yeast kinetochores and single microtubules. Moreover,
tension increases the lifetimes of the reconstituted attachments directly,
through a catch bond-like mechanism that does not require Aurora B. On the basis 
of these findings, we propose that tension selectively stabilizes proper
kinetochore-microtubule attachments in vivo through a combination of direct
mechanical stabilization and tension-dependent phosphoregulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09594 
PMCID: PMC3108429
PMID: 21107429  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):572-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09535.

Stage-specific sensitivity to p53 restoration during lung cancer progression.

Feldser DM(1), Kostova KK, Winslow MM, Taylor SE, Cashman C, Whittaker CA,
Sanchez-Rivera FJ, Resnick R, Bronson R, Hemann MT, Jacks T.

Author information: 
(1)Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, Department of Biology, and
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 77
Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):519-20.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Jan;11(1):4.

Tumorigenesis is a multistep process that results from the sequential
accumulation of mutations in key oncogene and tumour suppressor pathways.
Personalized cancer therapy that is based on targeting these underlying genetic
abnormalities presupposes that sustained inactivation of tumour suppressors and
activation of oncogenes is essential in advanced cancers. Mutations in the p53
tumour-suppressor pathway are common in human cancer and significant efforts
towards pharmaceutical reactivation of defective p53 pathways are underway. Here 
we show that restoration of p53 in established murine lung tumours leads to
significant but incomplete tumour cell loss specifically in malignant
adenocarcinomas, but not in adenomas. We define amplification of MAPK signalling 
as a critical determinant of malignant progression and also a stimulator of Arf
tumour-suppressor expression. The response to p53 restoration in this context is 
critically dependent on the expression of Arf. We propose that p53 not only
limits malignant progression by suppressing the acquisition of alterations that
lead to tumour progression, but also, in the context of p53 restoration, responds
to increased oncogenic signalling to mediate tumour regression. Our observations 
also underscore that the p53 pathway is not engaged by low levels of oncogene
activity that are sufficient for early stages of lung tumour development. These
data suggest that restoration of pathways important in tumour progression, as
opposed to initiation, may lead to incomplete tumour regression due to the
stage-heterogeneity of tumour cell populations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09535 
PMCID: PMC3003305
PMID: 21107428  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):567-71. doi: 10.1038/nature09526.

Selective activation of p53-mediated tumour suppression in high-grade tumours.

Junttila MR(1), Karnezis AN, Garcia D, Madriles F, Kortlever RM, Rostker F, Brown
Swigart L, Pham DM, Seo Y, Evan GI, Martins CP.

Author information: 
(1)University of California San Francisco, Department of Pathology and Helen
Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, San Francisco, California 94143-0502, 
USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Jan;11(1):4.
    Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):519-20.

Non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) is the leading cause of cancer-related
death worldwide, with an overall 5-year survival rate of only 10-15%.
Deregulation of the Ras pathway is a frequent hallmark of NSCLC, often through
mutations that directly activate Kras. p53 is also frequently inactivated in
NSCLC and, because oncogenic Ras can be a potent trigger of p53 (ref. 3), it
seems likely that oncogenic Ras signalling has a major and persistent role in
driving the selection against p53. Hence, pharmacological restoration of p53 is
an appealing therapeutic strategy for treating this disease. Here we model the
probable therapeutic impact of p53 restoration in a spontaneously evolving mouse 
model of NSCLC initiated by sporadic oncogenic activation of endogenous Kras.
Surprisingly, p53 restoration failed to induce significant regression of
established tumours, although it did result in a significant decrease in the
relative proportion of high-grade tumours. This is due to selective activation of
p53 only in the more aggressive tumour cells within each tumour. Such selective
activation of p53 correlates with marked upregulation in Ras signal intensity and
induction of the oncogenic signalling sensor p19(ARF)( )(ref. 6). Our data
indicate that p53-mediated tumour suppression is triggered only when oncogenic
Ras signal flux exceeds a critical threshold. Importantly, the failure of
low-level oncogenic Kras to engage p53 reveals inherent limits in the capacity of
p53 to restrain early tumour evolution and in the efficacy of therapeutic p53
restoration to eradicate cancers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09526 
PMCID: PMC3011233
PMID: 21107427  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):545-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09567.

Bose-Einstein condensation of photons in an optical microcavity.

Klaers J(1), Schmitt J, Vewinger F, Weitz M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Angewandte Physik, Universität Bonn, Wegelerstrasse 8, 53115
Bonn, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):517-8.

Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC)-the macroscopic ground-state accumulation of
particles with integer spin (bosons) at low temperature and high density-has been
observed in several physical systems, including cold atomic gases and solid-state
quasiparticles. However, the most omnipresent Bose gas, blackbody radiation
(radiation in thermal equilibrium with the cavity walls) does not show this phase
transition. In such systems photons have a vanishing chemical potential, meaning 
that their number is not conserved when the temperature of the photon gas is
varied; at low temperatures, photons disappear in the cavity walls instead of
occupying the cavity ground state. Theoretical works have considered
thermalization processes that conserve photon number (a prerequisite for BEC),
involving Compton scattering with a gas of thermal electrons or photon-photon
scattering in a nonlinear resonator configuration. Number-conserving
thermalization was experimentally observed for a two-dimensional photon gas in a 
dye-filled optical microcavity, which acts as a 'white-wall' box. Here we report 
the observation of a Bose-Einstein condensate of photons in this system. The
cavity mirrors provide both a confining potential and a non-vanishing effective
photon mass, making the system formally equivalent to a two-dimensional gas of
trapped, massive bosons. The photons thermalize to the temperature of the dye
solution (room temperature) by multiple scattering with the dye molecules. Upon
increasing the photon density, we observe the following BEC signatures: the
photon energies have a Bose-Einstein distribution with a massively populated
ground-state mode on top of a broad thermal wing; the phase transition occurs at 
the expected photon density and exhibits the predicted dependence on cavity
geometry; and the ground-state mode emerges even for a spatially displaced pump
spot. The prospects of the observed effects include studies of extremely weakly
interacting low-dimensional Bose gases and new coherent ultraviolet sources.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09567 
PMID: 21107426 


98. Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):542-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09598.

The dynamical mass of a classical Cepheid variable star in an eclipsing binary
system.

Pietrzyński G(1), Thompson IB, Gieren W, Graczyk D, Bono G, Udalski A, Soszyński 
I, Minniti D, Pilecki B.

Author information: 
(1)Universidad de Concepción, Departamento de Astronomìa, Casilla 160-C,
Concepciòn, Chile. pietrzyn@astrouw.edu.pl

Stellar pulsation theory provides a means of determining the masses of pulsating 
classical Cepheid supergiants-it is the pulsation that causes their luminosity to
vary. Such pulsational masses are found to be smaller than the masses derived
from stellar evolution theory: this is the Cepheid mass discrepancy problem, for 
which a solution is missing. An independent, accurate dynamical mass
determination for a classical Cepheid variable star (as opposed to type-II
Cepheids, low-mass stars with a very different evolutionary history) in a binary 
system is needed in order to determine which is correct. The accuracy of previous
efforts to establish a dynamical Cepheid mass from Galactic single-lined
non-eclipsing binaries was typically about 15-30% (refs 6, 7), which is not good 
enough to resolve the mass discrepancy problem. In spite of many observational
efforts, no firm detection of a classical Cepheid in an eclipsing double-lined
binary has hitherto been reported. Here we report the discovery of a classical
Cepheid in a well detached, double-lined eclipsing binary in the Large Magellanic
Cloud. We determine the mass to a precision of 1% and show that it agrees with
its pulsation mass, providing strong evidence that pulsation theory correctly and
precisely predicts the masses of classical Cepheids.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09598 
PMID: 21107425 


99. Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):539-41. doi: 10.1038/nature09577.

A geometric measure of dark energy with pairs of galaxies.

Marinoni C(1), Buzzi A.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Physique Théorique, UMR 6207 CNRS-Université de Provence, Campus de 
Luminy, Case 907, 13288 Marseille cedex 9, France. marinoni@cpt.univ-mrs.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):511-2.

Observations indicate that the expansion of the Universe is accelerating, which
is attributed to a ‘dark energy’ component that opposes gravity. There is a
purely geometric test of the expansion of the Universe (the Alcock–Paczynski
test), which would provide an independent way of investigating the abundance
(Ω(X)) and equation of state (W(X)) of dark energy. It is based on an analysis of
the geometrical distortions expected from comparing the real-space and
redshift-space shape of distant cosmic structures, but it has proved difficult to
implement. Here we report an analysis of the symmetry properties of distant pairs
of galaxies from archival data. This allows us to determine that the Universe is 
flat. By alternately fixing its spatial geometry at Ω(k)≡0 and the dark energy
equation-of-state parameter at W(X)≡-1, and using the results of baryon acoustic 
oscillations, we can establish at the 68.3% confidence level that and
-0.85>W(X)>-1.12 and 0.60<Ω(X)<0.80.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09577 
PMID: 21107424 


100. Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):533-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09623.

Structure and control of the actin regulatory WAVE complex.

Chen Z(1), Borek D, Padrick SB, Gomez TS, Metlagel Z, Ismail AM, Umetani J,
Billadeau DD, Otwinowski Z, Rosen MK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at
Dallas, 5323 Harry Hines Boulevard, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.

Members of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) family control
cytoskeletal dynamics by promoting actin filament nucleation with the Arp2/3
complex. The WASP relative WAVE regulates lamellipodia formation within a
400-kilodalton, hetero-pentameric WAVE regulatory complex (WRC). The WRC is
inactive towards the Arp2/3 complex, but can be stimulated by the Rac GTPase,
kinases and phosphatidylinositols. Here we report the 2.3-ångstrom crystal
structure of the WRC and complementary mechanistic analyses. The structure shows 
that the activity-bearing VCA motif of WAVE is sequestered by a combination of
intramolecular and intermolecular contacts within the WRC. Rac and kinases appear
to destabilize a WRC element that is necessary for VCA sequestration, suggesting 
the way in which these signals stimulate WRC activity towards the Arp2/3 complex.
The spatial proximity of the Rac binding site and the large basic surface of the 
WRC suggests how the GTPase and phospholipids could cooperatively recruit the
complex to membranes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09623 
PMCID: PMC3085272
PMID: 21107423  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):527-32. doi: 10.1038/nature09606.

Sugar transporters for intercellular exchange and nutrition of pathogens.

Chen LQ(1), Hou BH, Lalonde S, Takanaga H, Hartung ML, Qu XQ, Guo WJ, Kim JG,
Underwood W, Chaudhuri B, Chermak D, Antony G, White FF, Somerville SC, Mudgett
MB, Frommer WB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Biology, Carnegie Institution for Science, 260 Panama St, 
Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):510-1.
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2011 Jan;9(1):4.

Sugar efflux transporters are essential for the maintenance of animal blood
glucose levels, plant nectar production, and plant seed and pollen development.
Despite broad biological importance, the identity of sugar efflux transporters
has remained elusive. Using optical glucose sensors, we identified a new class of
sugar transporters, named SWEETs, and show that at least six out of seventeen
Arabidopsis, two out of over twenty rice and two out of seven homologues in
Caenorhabditis elegans, and the single copy human protein, mediate glucose
transport. Arabidopsis SWEET8 is essential for pollen viability, and the rice
homologues SWEET11 and SWEET14 are specifically exploited by bacterial pathogens 
for virulence by means of direct binding of a bacterial effector to the SWEET
promoter. Bacterial symbionts and fungal and bacterial pathogens induce the
expression of different SWEET genes, indicating that the sugar efflux function of
SWEET transporters is probably targeted by pathogens and symbionts for
nutritional gain. The metazoan homologues may be involved in sugar efflux from
intestinal, liver, epididymis and mammary cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09606 
PMCID: PMC3000469
PMID: 21107422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):E3-4; discussion E4-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09532.

Bold claims for optogenetics.

Logothetis NK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Biological Cybernetics, Tuebingen, Germany.
nikos.logothetis@tuebingen.mpg.de

Comment on
    Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):788-92.

In a recent Letter to Nature, Lee and colleagues combined optogenetic stimulation
with functional magnetic resonance imaging (ofMRI) to examine the relationship
between pyramidal-cell spiking and the blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD)
signal. To do so, they injected an adeno-associated viral vector into the primary
motor cortex (M1) of adult rats to drive the expression of channelrhodopsin
(ChR2) in cortical projection neurons, thus making them sensitive to light. The
authors then used combined light stimulation and functional magnetic resonance
imaging (fMRI) to examine the effects of selective activation of the
light-sensitive pyramidal cells on the BOLD signal, as well as to probe the value
of this methodology for mapping brain connectivity. They found that excitation of
these neurons induced positive BOLD signals both in the injected M1 region and in
remote target thalamic nuclei receiving direct projections from that region, and 
concluded that ofMRI reliably links positive BOLD signals with increased local
neuronal excitation. However, their analysis neglects the almost immediate
activation of other circuits that could lead to the generation of BOLD signals
through local perisynaptic rather than spiking activity. Their experiments
therefore do not pin down the identity of the specific neuronal signals that give
rise to the BOLD signal.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09532 
PMID: 21107378  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):549-52. doi: 10.1038/nature09579. Epub 2010 Nov 10.

Growth of graphene from solid carbon sources.

Sun Z(1), Yan Z, Yao J, Beitler E, Zhu Y, Tour JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Rice University, 6100 Main Street, Houston, Texas
77005, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 3:471(7336):124.

Monolayer graphene was first obtained as a transferable material in 2004 and has 
stimulated intense activity among physicists, chemists and material scientists.
Much research has been focused on developing routes for obtaining large sheets of
monolayer or bilayer graphene. This has been recently achieved by chemical vapour
deposition (CVD) of CH(4) or C(2)H(2) gases on copper or nickel substrates. But
CVD is limited to the use of gaseous raw materials, making it difficult to apply 
the technology to a wider variety of potential feedstocks. Here we demonstrate
that large area, high-quality graphene with controllable thickness can be grown
from different solid carbon sources-such as polymer films or small
molecules-deposited on a metal catalyst substrate at temperatures as low as
800 °C. Both pristine graphene and doped graphene were grown with this one-step
process using the same experimental set-up.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09579 
PMID: 21068724 


104. Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):521-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09591. Epub 2010 Nov 7.

Direct conversion of human fibroblasts to multilineage blood progenitors.

Szabo E(1), Rampalli S, Risueño RM, Schnerch A, Mitchell R, Fiebig-Comyn A,
Levadoux-Martin M, Bhatia M.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell and Cancer Research Institute, McMaster University, Hamilton,
Ontario, Canada L8N 3Z5.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2018 Aug;560(7719):E32.

As is the case for embryo-derived stem cells, application of reprogrammed human
induced pluripotent stem cells is limited by our understanding of lineage
specification. Here we demonstrate the ability to generate progenitors and mature
cells of the haematopoietic fate directly from human dermal fibroblasts without
establishing pluripotency. Ectopic expression of OCT4 (also called
POU5F1)-activated haematopoietic transcription factors, together with specific
cytokine treatment, allowed generation of cells expressing the pan-leukocyte
marker CD45. These unique fibroblast-derived cells gave rise to granulocytic,
monocytic, megakaryocytic and erythroid lineages, and demonstrated in vivo
engraftment capacity. We note that adult haematopoietic programs are activated,
consistent with bypassing the pluripotent state to generate blood fate: this is
distinct from haematopoiesis involving pluripotent stem cells, where embryonic
programs are activated. These findings demonstrate restoration of multipotency
from human fibroblasts, and suggest an alternative approach to cellular
reprogramming for autologous cell-replacement therapies that avoids complications
associated with the use of human pluripotent stem cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09591 
PMID: 21057492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):585-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09471. Epub 2010 Nov 3.

The amino-terminal disease hotspot of ryanodine receptors forms a cytoplasmic
vestibule.

Tung CC(1), Lobo PA, Kimlicka L, Van Petegem F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z3, Canada.

Many physiological events require transient increases in cytosolic Ca(2+)
concentrations. Ryanodine receptors (RyRs) are ion channels that govern the
release of Ca(2+) from the endoplasmic and sarcoplasmic reticulum. Mutations in
RyRs can lead to severe genetic conditions that affect both cardiac and skeletal 
muscle, but locating the mutated residues in the full-length channel structure
has been difficult. Here we show the 2.5 Å resolution crystal structure of a
region spanning three domains of RyR type 1 (RyR1), encompassing amino acid
residues 1-559. The domains interact with each other through a predominantly
hydrophilic interface. Docking in RyR1 electron microscopy maps unambiguously
places the domains in the cytoplasmic portion of the channel, forming a 240-kDa
cytoplasmic vestibule around the four-fold symmetry axis. We pinpoint the exact
locations of more than 50 disease-associated mutations in full-length RyR1 and
RyR2. The mutations can be classified into three groups: those that destabilize
the interfaces between the three amino-terminal domains, disturb the folding of
individual domains or affect one of six interfaces with other parts of the
receptor. We propose a model whereby the opening of a RyR coincides with
allosterically coupled motions within the N-terminal domains. This process can be
affected by mutations that target various interfaces within and across subunits. 
The crystal structure provides a framework to understand the many
disease-associated mutations in RyRs that have been studied using functional
methods, and will be useful for developing new strategies to modulate RyR
function in disease states.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09471 
PMID: 21048710  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):553-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09492. Epub 2010 Oct 27.

Bottom-up effects of plant diversity on multitrophic interactions in a
biodiversity experiment.

Scherber C(1), Eisenhauer N, Weisser WW, Schmid B, Voigt W, Fischer M, Schulze
ED, Roscher C, Weigelt A, Allan E, Bessler H, Bonkowski M, Buchmann N, Buscot F, 
Clement LW, Ebeling A, Engels C, Halle S, Kertscher I, Klein AM, Koller R, König 
S, Kowalski E, Kummer V, Kuu A, Lange M, Lauterbach D, Middelhoff C, Migunova VD,
Milcu A, Müller R, Partsch S, Petermann JS, Renker C, Rottstock T, Sabais A,
Scheu S, Schumacher J, Temperton VM, Tscharntke T.

Author information: 
(1)Georg-August-University Göttingen, Department of Crop Sciences, Agroecology,
Grisebachstrasse 6, 37077 Göttingen, Germany.
christoph.scherber@agr.uni-goettingen.de

Biodiversity is rapidly declining, and this may negatively affect ecosystem
processes, including economically important ecosystem services. Previous studies 
have shown that biodiversity has positive effects on organisms and processes
across trophic levels. However, only a few studies have so far incorporated an
explicit food-web perspective. In an eight-year biodiversity experiment, we
studied an unprecedented range of above- and below-ground organisms and
multitrophic interactions. A multitrophic data set originating from a single
long-term experiment allows mechanistic insights that would not be gained from
meta-analysis of different experiments. Here we show that plant diversity effects
dampen with increasing trophic level and degree of omnivory. This was true both
for abundance and species richness of organisms. Furthermore, we present
comprehensive above-ground/below-ground biodiversity food webs. Both above ground
and below ground, herbivores responded more strongly to changes in plant
diversity than did carnivores or omnivores. Density and richness of carnivorous
taxa was independent of vegetation structure. Below-ground responses to plant
diversity were consistently weaker than above-ground responses. Responses to
increasing plant diversity were generally positive, but were negative for
biological invasion, pathogen infestation and hyperparasitism. Our results
suggest that plant diversity has strong bottom-up effects on multitrophic
interaction networks, with particularly strong effects on lower trophic levels.
Effects on higher trophic levels are indirectly mediated through bottom-up
trophic cascades.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09492 
PMID: 20981010  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):557-61. doi: 10.1038/nature09522. Epub 2010 Oct 13.

Pericytes regulate the blood-brain barrier.

Armulik A(1), Genové G, Mäe M, Nisancioglu MH, Wallgard E, Niaudet C, He L,
Norlin J, Lindblom P, Strittmatter K, Johansson BR, Betsholtz C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Biochemistry and Biophysics, Division of Vascular
Biology, Karolinska Institute, Scheeles väg 2, SE-171 77 Stockholm, Sweden.
annika.armulik@ki.se

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2010 Dec;11(12):789.

The blood-brain barrier (BBB) consists of specific physical barriers, enzymes and
transporters, which together maintain the necessary extracellular environment of 
the central nervous system (CNS). The main physical barrier is found in the CNS
endothelial cell, and depends on continuous complexes of tight junctions combined
with reduced vesicular transport. Other possible constituents of the BBB include 
extracellular matrix, astrocytes and pericytes, but the relative contribution of 
these different components to the BBB remains largely unknown. Here we
demonstrate a direct role of pericytes at the BBB in vivo. Using a set of adult
viable pericyte-deficient mouse mutants we show that pericyte deficiency
increases the permeability of the BBB to water and a range of low-molecular-mass 
and high-molecular-mass tracers. The increased permeability occurs by endothelial
transcytosis, a process that is rapidly arrested by the drug imatinib.
Furthermore, we show that pericytes function at the BBB in at least two ways: by 
regulating BBB-specific gene expression patterns in endothelial cells, and by
inducing polarization of astrocyte end-feet surrounding CNS blood vessels. Our
results indicate a novel and critical role for pericytes in the integration of
endothelial and astrocyte functions at the neurovascular unit, and in the
regulation of the BBB.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09522 
PMID: 20944627  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):562-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09513. Epub 2010 Oct 13.

Pericytes are required for blood-brain barrier integrity during embryogenesis.

Daneman R(1), Zhou L, Kebede AA, Barres BA.

Author information: 
(1)UCSF Department of Anatomy, 513 Parnassus Avenue, HSW1301, San Francisco,
California 94143-0452, USA. Richard.daneman@ucsf.edu

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2010 Dec;11(12):789.

Vascular endothelial cells in the central nervous system (CNS) form a barrier
that restricts the movement of molecules and ions between the blood and the
brain. This blood-brain barrier (BBB) is crucial to ensure proper neuronal
function and protect the CNS from injury and disease. Transplantation studies
have demonstrated that the BBB is not intrinsic to the endothelial cells, but is 
induced by interactions with the neural cells. Owing to the close spatial
relationship between astrocytes and endothelial cells, it has been hypothesized
that astrocytes induce this critical barrier postnatally, but the timing of BBB
formation has been controversial. Here we demonstrate that the barrier is formed 
during embryogenesis as endothelial cells invade the CNS and pericytes are
recruited to the nascent vessels, over a week before astrocyte generation.
Analysing mice with null and hypomorphic alleles of Pdgfrb, which have defects in
pericyte generation, we demonstrate that pericytes are necessary for the
formation of the BBB, and that absolute pericyte coverage determines relative
vascular permeability. We demonstrate that pericytes regulate functional aspects 
of the BBB, including the formation of tight junctions and vesicle trafficking in
CNS endothelial cells. Pericytes do not induce BBB-specific gene expression in
CNS endothelial cells, but inhibit the expression of molecules that increase
vascular permeability and CNS immune cell infiltration. These data indicate that 
pericyte-endothelial cell interactions are critical to regulate the BBB during
development, and disruption of these interactions may lead to BBB dysfunction and
neuroinflammation during CNS injury and disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09513 
PMCID: PMC3241506
PMID: 20944625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Nature. 2010 Nov 18;468(7322):457-60. doi: 10.1038/nature09496.

Molecular coupling of Tsix regulation and pluripotency.

Navarro P(1), Oldfield A, Legoupi J, Festuccia N, Dubois A, Attia M, Schoorlemmer
J, Rougeulle C, Chambers I, Avner P.

Author information: 
(1)Unité de Génétique Moléculaire Murine, URA 2578, Institut Pasteur, 75724 Paris
Cedex 15, France. pablo.navarro@ed.ac.uk

The reprogramming of X-chromosome inactivation during the acquisition of
pluripotency in vivo and in vitro is accompanied by the repression of Xist, the
trigger of X-inactivation, and the upregulation of its antisense counterpart
Tsix. We have shown that key factors supporting pluripotency-Nanog, Oct4 and
Sox2-bind within Xist intron 1 in undifferentiated embryonic stem cells (ESC) to 
repress Xist transcription. However, the relationship between transcription
factors of the pluripotency network and Tsix regulation has remained unclear.
Here we show that Tsix upregulation in embryonic stem cells depends on the
recruitment of the pluripotent marker Rex1, and of the reprogramming-associated
factors Klf4 and c-Myc, by the DXPas34 minisatellite associated with the Tsix
promoter. Upon deletion of DXPas34, binding of the three factors is abrogated and
the transcriptional machinery is no longer efficiently recruited to the Tsix
promoter. Additional analyses including knockdown experiments further demonstrate
that Rex1 is critically important for efficient transcription elongation of Tsix.
Hence, distinct embryonic-stem-cell-specific complexes couple X-inactivation
reprogramming and pluripotency, with Nanog, Oct4 and Sox2 repressing Xist to
facilitate the reactivation of the inactive X, and Klf4, c-Myc and Rex1
activating Tsix to remodel Xist chromatin and ensure random X-inactivation upon
differentiation. The holistic pattern of Xist/Tsix regulation by pluripotent
factors that we have identified suggests a general direct governance of complex
epigenetic processes by the machinery dedicated to pluripotency.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09496 
PMID: 21085182  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Nature. 2010 Nov 18;468(7322):452-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09489.

2'-O methylation of the viral mRNA cap evades host restriction by IFIT family
members.

Daffis S(1), Szretter KJ, Schriewer J, Li J, Youn S, Errett J, Lin TY, Schneller 
S, Zust R, Dong H, Thiel V, Sen GC, Fensterl V, Klimstra WB, Pierson TC, Buller
RM, Gale M Jr, Shi PY, Diamond MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis,
Missouri 63110, USA.

Cellular messenger RNA (mRNA) of higher eukaryotes and many viral RNAs are
methylated at the N-7 and 2'-O positions of the 5' guanosine cap by specific
nuclear and cytoplasmic methyltransferases (MTases), respectively. Whereas N-7
methylation is essential for RNA translation and stability, the function of 2'-O 
methylation has remained uncertain since its discovery 35 years ago. Here we show
that a West Nile virus (WNV) mutant (E218A) that lacks 2'-O MTase activity was
attenuated in wild-type primary cells and mice but was pathogenic in the absence 
of type I interferon (IFN) signalling. 2'-O methylation of viral RNA did not
affect IFN induction in WNV-infected fibroblasts but instead modulated the
antiviral effects of IFN-induced proteins with tetratricopeptide repeats (IFIT), 
which are interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) implicated in regulation of protein 
translation. Poxvirus and coronavirus mutants that lacked 2'-O MTase activity
similarly showed enhanced sensitivity to the antiviral actions of IFN and,
specifically, IFIT proteins. Our results demonstrate that the 2'-O methylation of
the 5' cap of viral RNA functions to subvert innate host antiviral responses
through escape of IFIT-mediated suppression, and suggest an evolutionary
explanation for 2'-O methylation of cellular mRNA: to distinguish self from
non-self RNA. Differential methylation of cytoplasmic RNA probably serves as an
example for pattern recognition and restriction of propagation of foreign viral
RNA in host cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09489 
PMCID: PMC3058805
PMID: 21085181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Nature. 2010 Nov 18;468(7322):443-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09544.

L1 retrotransposition in neurons is modulated by MeCP2.

Muotri AR(1), Marchetto MC, Coufal NG, Oefner R, Yeo G, Nakashima K, Gage FH.

Author information: 
(1)University of California San Diego, School of Medicine, Department of
Pediatrics/Rady Children's Hospital San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093-0695,
USA. muotri@ucsd.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Nov 18;468(7322):383-4.

Long interspersed nuclear elements-1 (LINE-1 or L1s) are abundant
retrotransposons that comprise approximately 20% of mammalian genomes. Active L1 
retrotransposons can impact the genome in a variety of ways, creating insertions,
deletions, new splice sites or gene expression fine-tuning. We have shown
previously that L1 retrotransposons are capable of mobilization in neuronal
progenitor cells from rodents and humans and evidence of massive L1 insertions
was observed in adult brain tissues but not in other somatic tissues. In
addition, L1 mobility in the adult hippocampus can be influenced by the
environment. The neuronal specificity of somatic L1 retrotransposition in neural 
progenitors is partially due to the transition of a Sox2/HDAC1 repressor complex 
to a Wnt-mediated T-cell factor/lymphoid enhancer factor (TCF/LEF)
transcriptional activator. The transcriptional switch accompanies chromatin
remodelling during neuronal differentiation, allowing a transient stimulation of 
L1 transcription. The activity of L1 retrotransposons during brain development
can have an impact on gene expression and neuronal function, thereby increasing
brain-specific genetic mosaicism. Further understanding of the molecular
mechanisms that regulate L1 expression should provide new insights into the role 
of L1 retrotransposition during brain development. Here we show that L1 neuronal 
transcription and retrotransposition in rodents are increased in the absence of
methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2), a protein involved in global DNA
methylation and human neurodevelopmental diseases. Using neuronal progenitor
cells derived from human induced pluripotent stem cells and human tissues, we
revealed that patients with Rett syndrome (RTT), carrying MeCP2 mutations, have
increased susceptibility for L1 retrotransposition. Our data demonstrate that L1 
retrotransposition can be controlled in a tissue-specific manner and that
disease-related genetic mutations can influence the frequency of neuronal L1
retrotransposition. Our findings add a new level of complexity to the molecular
events that can lead to neurological disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09544 
PMCID: PMC3059197
PMID: 21085180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Nature. 2010 Nov 18;468(7322):439-42. doi: 10.1038/nature09490.

A widespread family of polymorphic contact-dependent toxin delivery systems in
bacteria.

Aoki SK(1), Diner EJ, de Roodenbeke CT, Burgess BR, Poole SJ, Braaten BA, Jones
AM, Webb JS, Hayes CS, Cotter PA, Low DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, University of
California - Santa Barbara (UCSB), Santa Barbara, California 93106-9625, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2011 Jan;9(1):3.

Bacteria have developed mechanisms to communicate and compete with one another in
diverse environments. A new form of intercellular communication,
contact-dependent growth inhibition (CDI), was discovered recently in Escherichia
coli. CDI is mediated by the CdiB/CdiA two-partner secretion (TPS) system. CdiB
facilitates secretion of the CdiA 'exoprotein' onto the cell surface. An
additional small immunity protein (CdiI) protects CDI(+) cells from
autoinhibition. The mechanisms by which CDI blocks cell growth and by which CdiI 
counteracts this growth arrest are unknown. Moreover, the existence of CDI
activity in other bacteria has not been explored. Here we show that the CDI
growth inhibitory activity resides within the carboxy-terminal region of CdiA
(CdiA-CT), and that CdiI binds and inactivates cognate CdiA-CT, but not
heterologous CdiA-CT. Bioinformatic and experimental analyses show that multiple 
bacterial species encode functional CDI systems with high sequence variability in
the CdiA-CT and CdiI coding regions. CdiA-CT heterogeneity implies that a range
of toxic activities are used during CDI. Indeed, CdiA-CTs from uropathogenic
E. coli and the plant pathogen Dickeya dadantii have different nuclease
activities, each providing a distinct mechanism of growth inhibition. Finally, we
show that bacteria lacking the CdiA-CT and CdiI coding regions are unable to
compete with isogenic wild-type CDI(+) cells both in laboratory media and on a
eukaryotic host. Taken together, these results suggest that CDI systems
constitute an intricate immunity network with an important function in bacterial 
competition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09490 
PMCID: PMC3058911
PMID: 21085179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Nature. 2010 Nov 18;468(7322):431-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09528.

The trophic fingerprint of marine fisheries.

Branch TA(1), Watson R, Fulton EA, Jennings S, McGilliard CR, Pablico GT, Ricard 
D, Tracey SR.

Author information: 
(1)School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences, Box 355020, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington 98195-5020, USA. tbranch@uw.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Nov 18;468(7322):385-6.

Biodiversity indicators provide a vital window on the state of the planet,
guiding policy development and management. The most widely adopted marine
indicator is mean trophic level (MTL) from catches, intended to detect shifts
from high-trophic-level predators to low-trophic-level invertebrates and
plankton-feeders. This indicator underpins reported trends in human impacts,
declining when predators collapse ("fishing down marine food webs") and when
low-trophic-level fisheries expand ("fishing through marine food webs"). The
assumption is that catch MTL measures changes in ecosystem MTL and biodiversity. 
Here we combine model predictions with global assessments of MTL from catches,
trawl surveys and fisheries stock assessments and find that catch MTL does not
reliably predict changes in marine ecosystems. Instead, catch MTL trends often
diverge from ecosystem MTL trends obtained from surveys and assessments. In
contrast to previous findings of rapid declines in catch MTL, we observe recent
increases in catch, survey and assessment MTL. However, catches from most trophic
levels are rising, which can intensify fishery collapses even when MTL trends are
stable or increasing. To detect fishing impacts on marine biodiversity, we
recommend greater efforts to measure true abundance trends for marine species,
especially those most vulnerable to fishing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09528 
PMID: 21085178  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Nature. 2010 Nov 18;468(7322):426-30. doi: 10.1038/nature09558.

Intrusion triggering of the 2010 Eyjafjallajökull explosive eruption.

Sigmundsson F(1), Hreinsdóttir S, Hooper A, Arnadóttir T, Pedersen R, Roberts MJ,
Oskarsson N, Auriac A, Decriem J, Einarsson P, Geirsson H, Hensch M, Ofeigsson
BG, Sturkell E, Sveinbjörnsson H, Feigl KL.

Author information: 
(1)Nordic Volcanological Center, Institute of Earth Sciences, University of
Iceland, Askja, Sturlugata 7, Reykjavik IS-101, Iceland. fs@hi.is

Gradual inflation of magma chambers often precedes eruptions at highly active
volcanoes. During such eruptions, rapid deflation occurs as magma flows out and
pressure is reduced. Less is known about the deformation style at moderately
active volcanoes, such as Eyjafjallajökull, Iceland, where an explosive summit
eruption of trachyandesite beginning on 14 April 2010 caused exceptional
disruption to air traffic, closing airspace over much of Europe for days. This
eruption was preceded by an effusive flank eruption of basalt from 20 March to 12
April 2010. The 2010 eruptions are the culmination of 18 years of intermittent
volcanic unrest. Here we show that deformation associated with the eruptions was 
unusual because it did not relate to pressure changes within a single magma
chamber. Deformation was rapid before the first eruption (>5 mm per day after 4
March), but negligible during it. Lack of distinct co-eruptive deflation
indicates that the net volume of magma drained from shallow depth during this
eruption was small; rather, magma flowed from considerable depth. Before the
eruption, a ∼0.05 km(3) magmatic intrusion grew over a period of three months, in
a temporally and spatially complex manner, as revealed by GPS (Global Positioning
System) geodetic measurements and interferometric analysis of satellite radar
images. The second eruption occurred within the ice-capped caldera of the
volcano, with explosivity amplified by magma-ice interaction. Gradual contraction
of a source, distinct from the pre-eruptive inflation sources, is evident from
geodetic data. Eyjafjallajökull's behaviour can be attributed to its off-rift
setting with a 'cold' subsurface structure and limited magma at shallow depth, as
may be typical for moderately active volcanoes. Clear signs of volcanic unrest
signals over years to weeks may indicate reawakening of such volcanoes, whereas
immediate short-term eruption precursors may be subtle and difficult to detect.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09558 
PMID: 21085177 


115. Nature. 2010 Nov 18;468(7322):422-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09540.

Free-standing mesoporous silica films with tunable chiral nematic structures.

Shopsowitz KE(1), Qi H, Hamad WY, Maclachlan MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of British Columbia, 2036 Main Mall,
Vancouver, British Columbia, V6T 1Z1, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Nov 18;468(7322):387-8.

Chirality at the molecular level is found in diverse biological structures, such 
as polysaccharides, proteins and DNA, and is responsible for many of their unique
properties. Introducing chirality into porous inorganic solids may produce new
types of materials that could be useful for chiral separation, stereospecific
catalysis, chiral recognition (sensing) and photonic materials. Template
synthesis of inorganic solids using the self-assembly of lyotropic liquid
crystals offers access to materials with well-defined porous structures, but only
recently has chirality been introduced into hexagonal mesostructures through the 
use of a chiral surfactant. Efforts to impart chirality at a larger length scale 
using self-assembly are almost unknown. Here we describe the development of a
photonic mesoporous inorganic solid that is a cast of a chiral nematic liquid
crystal formed from nanocrystalline cellulose. These materials may be obtained as
free-standing films with high surface area. The peak reflected wavelength of the 
films can be varied across the entire visible spectrum and into the near-infrared
through simple changes in the synthetic conditions. To the best of our knowledge 
these are the first materials to combine mesoporosity with long-range chiral
ordering that produces photonic properties. Our findings could lead to the
development of new materials for applications in, for example, tuneable
reflective filters and sensors. In addition, this type of material could be used 
as a hard template to generate other new materials with chiral nematic
structures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09540 
PMID: 21085176  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Nature. 2010 Nov 18;468(7322):412-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09568.

Entanglement of spin waves among four quantum memories.

Choi KS(1), Goban A, Papp SB, van Enk SJ, Kimble HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Norman Bridge Laboratory of Physics 12-33, California Institute of Technology,
Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Nov 18;468(7322):384-5.

Quantum networks are composed of quantum nodes that interact coherently through
quantum channels, and open a broad frontier of scientific opportunities. For
example, a quantum network can serve as a 'web' for connecting quantum processors
for computation and communication, or as a 'simulator' allowing investigations of
quantum critical phenomena arising from interactions among the nodes mediated by 
the channels. The physical realization of quantum networks generically requires
dynamical systems capable of generating and storing entangled states among
multiple quantum memories, and efficiently transferring stored entanglement into 
quantum channels for distribution across the network. Although such capabilities 
have been demonstrated for diverse bipartite systems, entangled states have not
been achieved for interconnects capable of 'mapping' multipartite entanglement
stored in quantum memories to quantum channels. Here we demonstrate
measurement-induced entanglement stored in four atomic memories; user-controlled,
coherent transfer of the atomic entanglement to four photonic channels; and
characterization of the full quadripartite entanglement using quantum uncertainty
relations. Our work therefore constitutes an advance in the distribution of
multipartite entanglement across quantum networks. We also show that our
entanglement verification method is suitable for studying the entanglement order 
of condensed-matter systems in thermal equilibrium.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09568 
PMID: 21085175 


117. Nature. 2010 Nov 18;468(7322):389-93. doi: 10.1038/nature09509.

The moment of truth for WIMP dark matter.

Bertone G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut d'Astrophysique de Paris, UMR 7095-CNRS, Université Pierre et Marie
Curie, 98 bis Boulevard Arago, 75014 Paris, France. bertone@iap.fr

We know that dark matter constitutes 85 per cent of all the matter in the
Universe, but we do not know of what it is made. Amongst the many dark matter
candidates proposed, WIMPs (weakly interacting massive particles) occupy a
special place, because they arise naturally from new theories that seek to extend
the standard model of particle physics. With the advent of the Large Hadron
Collider at CERN, and a new generation of astroparticle experiments, the moment
of truth has come for WIMPs: either we will discover them in the next five to ten
years, or we will witness their inevitable decline.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09509 
PMID: 21085174 


118. Nature. 2010 Nov 18;468(7322):461-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09524. Epub 2010 Nov 3.

Integrating carbon-halogen bond formation into medicinal plant metabolism.

Runguphan W(1), Qu X, O'Connor SE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Nov 18;468(7322):380-1.

Halogenation, which was once considered a rare occurrence in nature, has now been
observed in many natural product biosynthetic pathways. However, only a small
fraction of halogenated compounds have been isolated from terrestrial plants.
Given the impact that halogenation can have on the biological activity of natural
products, we reasoned that the introduction of halides into medicinal plant
metabolism would provide the opportunity to rationally bioengineer a broad
variety of novel plant products with altered, and perhaps improved,
pharmacological properties. Here we report that chlorination biosynthetic
machinery from soil bacteria can be successfully introduced into the medicinal
plant Catharanthus roseus (Madagascar periwinkle). These prokaryotic halogenases 
function within the context of the plant cell to generate chlorinated tryptophan,
which is then shuttled into monoterpene indole alkaloid metabolism to yield
chlorinated alkaloids. A new functional group-a halide-is thereby introduced into
the complex metabolism of C. roseus, and is incorporated in a predictable and
regioselective manner onto the plant alkaloid products. Medicinal plants, despite
their genetic and developmental complexity, therefore seem to be a viable
platform for synthetic biology efforts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09524 
PMCID: PMC3058899
PMID: 21048708  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Nature. 2010 Nov 18;468(7322):447-51. doi: 10.1038/nature09518. Epub 2010 Oct 31.

The structural basis for membrane binding and pore formation by lymphocyte
perforin.

Law RH(1), Lukoyanova N, Voskoboinik I, Caradoc-Davies TT, Baran K, Dunstone MA, 
D'Angelo ME, Orlova EV, Coulibaly F, Verschoor S, Browne KA, Ciccone A, Kuiper
MJ, Bird PI, Trapani JA, Saibil HR, Whisstock JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Monash University, Clayton, 
Melbourne, Victoria 3800, Australia.

Natural killer cells and cytotoxic T lymphocytes accomplish the critically
important function of killing virus-infected and neoplastic cells. They do this
by releasing the pore-forming protein perforin and granzyme proteases from
cytoplasmic granules into the cleft formed between the abutting killer and target
cell membranes. Perforin, a 67-kilodalton multidomain protein, oligomerizes to
form pores that deliver the pro-apoptopic granzymes into the cytosol of the
target cell. The importance of perforin is highlighted by the fatal consequences 
of congenital perforin deficiency, with more than 50 different perforin mutations
linked to familial haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (type 2 FHL). Here we
elucidate the mechanism of perforin pore formation by determining the X-ray
crystal structure of monomeric murine perforin, together with a cryo-electron
microscopy reconstruction of the entire perforin pore. Perforin is a thin
'key-shaped' molecule, comprising an amino-terminal membrane attack complex
perforin-like (MACPF)/cholesterol dependent cytolysin (CDC) domain followed by an
epidermal growth factor (EGF) domain that, together with the extreme
carboxy-terminal sequence, forms a central shelf-like structure. A C-terminal C2 
domain mediates initial, Ca(2+)-dependent membrane binding. Most unexpectedly,
however, electron microscopy reveals that the orientation of the perforin MACPF
domain in the pore is inside-out relative to the subunit arrangement in CDCs.
These data reveal remarkable flexibility in the mechanism of action of the
conserved MACPF/CDC fold and provide new insights into how related immune defence
molecules such as complement proteins assemble into pores.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09518 
PMID: 21037563  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Nature. 2010 Nov 18;468(7322):436-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09512. Epub 2010 Oct 27.

Climate-driven population divergence in sex-determining systems.

Pen I(1), Uller T, Feldmeyer B, Harts A, While GM, Wapstra E.

Author information: 
(1)Theoretical Biology Group, University of Groningen, PO Box 14, 9750 AA Haren, 
the Netherlands. i.r.pen@rug.nl

Sex determination is a fundamental biological process, yet its mechanisms are
remarkably diverse. In vertebrates, sex can be determined by inherited genetic
factors or by the temperature experienced during embryonic development. However, 
the evolutionary causes of this diversity remain unknown. Here we show that
live-bearing lizards at different climatic extremes of the species' distribution 
differ in their sex-determining mechanisms, with temperature-dependent sex
determination in lowlands and genotypic sex determination in highlands. A
theoretical model parameterized with field data accurately predicts this
divergence in sex-determining systems and the consequence thereof for variation
in cohort sex ratios among years. Furthermore, we show that divergent natural
selection on sex determination across altitudes is caused by climatic effects on 
lizard life history and variation in the magnitude of between-year temperature
fluctuations. Our results establish an adaptive explanation for intra-specific
divergence in sex-determining systems driven by phenotypic plasticity and
ecological selection, thereby providing a unifying framework for integrating the 
developmental, ecological and evolutionary basis for variation in vertebrate sex 
determination.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09512 
PMID: 20981009  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


121. Nature. 2010 Nov 18;468(7322):417-21. doi: 10.1038/nature09478. Epub 2010 Oct 27.

Quantum tunnelling of the magnetization in a monolayer of oriented
single-molecule magnets.

Mannini M(1), Pineider F, Danieli C, Totti F, Sorace L, Sainctavit P, Arrio MA,
Otero E, Joly L, Cezar JC, Cornia A, Sessoli R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry 'Ugo Schiff' and INSTM Research Unit, University of
Florence, 50019 Sesto Fiorentino, Italy.

A fundamental step towards atomic- or molecular-scale spintronic devices has
recently been made by demonstrating that the spin of an individual atom deposited
on a surface, or of a small paramagnetic molecule embedded in a nanojunction, can
be externally controlled. An appealing next step is the extension of such a
capability to the field of information storage, by taking advantage of the
magnetic bistability and rich quantum behaviour of single-molecule magnets
(SMMs). Recently, a proof of concept that the magnetic memory effect is retained 
when SMMs are chemically anchored to a metallic surface was provided. However,
control of the nanoscale organization of these complex systems is required for
SMMs to be integrated into molecular spintronic devices. Here we show that a
preferential orientation of Fe(4) complexes on a gold surface can be achieved by 
chemical tailoring. As a result, the most striking quantum feature of SMMs-their 
stepped hysteresis loop, which results from resonant quantum tunnelling of the
magnetization-can be clearly detected using synchrotron-based spectroscopic
techniques. With the aid of multiple theoretical approaches, we relate the
angular dependence of the quantum tunnelling resonances to the adsorption
geometry, and demonstrate that molecules predominantly lie with their easy axes
close to the surface normal. Our findings prove that the quantum spin dynamics
can be observed in SMMs chemically grafted to surfaces, and offer a tool to
reveal the organization of matter at the nanoscale.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09478 
PMID: 20981008 


122. Nature. 2010 Nov 18;468(7322):394-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09514. Epub 2010 Oct 24.

Support for a synaptic chain model of neuronal sequence generation.

Long MA(1), Jin DZ, Fee MS.

Author information: 
(1)McGovern Institute for Brain Research, Department of Brain and Cognitive
Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 77 Massachusetts Avenue,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

In songbirds, the remarkable temporal precision of song is generated by a sparse 
sequence of bursts in the premotor nucleus HVC. To distinguish between two
possible classes of models of neural sequence generation, we carried out
intracellular recordings of HVC neurons in singing zebra finches (Taeniopygia
guttata). We found that the subthreshold membrane potential is characterized by a
large, rapid depolarization 5-10 ms before burst onset, consistent with a
synaptically connected chain of neurons in HVC. We found no evidence for the slow
membrane potential modulation predicted by models in which burst timing is
controlled by subthreshold dynamics. Furthermore, bursts ride on an underlying
depolarization of ∼10-ms duration, probably the result of a regenerative calcium 
spike within HVC neurons that could facilitate the propagation of activity
through a chain network with high temporal precision. Our results provide insight
into the fundamental mechanisms by which neural circuits can generate complex
sequential behaviours.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09514 
PMCID: PMC2998755
PMID: 20972420  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Nature. 2010 Nov 18;468(7322):400-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09430. Epub 2010 Oct 6.

Jasmonate perception by inositol-phosphate-potentiated COI1-JAZ co-receptor.

Sheard LB(1), Tan X, Mao H, Withers J, Ben-Nissan G, Hinds TR, Kobayashi Y, Hsu
FF, Sharon M, Browse J, He SY, Rizo J, Howe GA, Zheng N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Box 357280, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA.

Jasmonates are a family of plant hormones that regulate plant growth, development
and responses to stress. The F-box protein CORONATINE INSENSITIVE 1 (COI1)
mediates jasmonate signalling by promoting hormone-dependent ubiquitylation and
degradation of transcriptional repressor JAZ proteins. Despite its importance,
the mechanism of jasmonate perception remains unclear. Here we present structural
and pharmacological data to show that the true Arabidopsis jasmonate receptor is 
a complex of both COI1 and JAZ. COI1 contains an open pocket that recognizes the 
bioactive hormone (3R,7S)-jasmonoyl-l-isoleucine (JA-Ile) with high specificity. 
High-affinity hormone binding requires a bipartite JAZ degron sequence consisting
of a conserved α-helix for COI1 docking and a loop region to trap the hormone in 
its binding pocket. In addition, we identify a third critical component of the
jasmonate co-receptor complex, inositol pentakisphosphate, which interacts with
both COI1 and JAZ adjacent to the ligand. Our results unravel the mechanism of
jasmonate perception and highlight the ability of F-box proteins to evolve as
multi-component signalling hubs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09430 
PMCID: PMC2988090
PMID: 20927106  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Nature. 2010 Nov 18;468(7322):406-11. doi: 10.1038/nature09428. Epub 2010 Oct 3.

An unprecedented nucleic acid capture mechanism for excision of DNA damage.

Rubinson EH(1), Gowda AS, Spratt TE, Gold B, Eichman BF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences and Center for Structural Biology,
Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37232, USA.

DNA glycosylases that remove alkylated and deaminated purine nucleobases are
essential DNA repair enzymes that protect the genome, and at the same time
confound cancer alkylation therapy, by excising cytotoxic N3-methyladenine bases 
formed by DNA-targeting anticancer compounds. The basis for glycosylase
specificity towards N3- and N7-alkylpurines is believed to result from intrinsic 
instability of the modified bases and not from direct enzyme functional group
chemistry. Here we present crystal structures of the recently discovered Bacillus
cereus AlkD glycosylase in complex with DNAs containing alkylated, mismatched and
abasic nucleotides. Unlike other glycosylases, AlkD captures the extrahelical
lesion in a solvent-exposed orientation, providing an illustration for how
hydrolysis of N3- and N7-alkylated bases may be facilitated by increased lifetime
out of the DNA helix. The structures and supporting biochemical analysis of base 
flipping and catalysis reveal how the HEAT repeats of AlkD distort the DNA
backbone to detect non-Watson-Crick base pairs without duplex intercalation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09428 
PMCID: PMC4160814
PMID: 20927102  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):330-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09497.

Iron-catalysed oxidation intermediates captured in a DNA repair dioxygenase.

Yi C(1), Jia G, Hou G, Dai Q, Zhang W, Zheng G, Jian X, Yang CG, Cui Q, He C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Institute for Biophysical Dynamics, The University
of Chicago, 929 East 57th Street, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

Mononuclear iron-containing oxygenases conduct a diverse variety of oxidation
functions in biology, including the oxidative demethylation of methylated nucleic
acids and histones. Escherichia coli AlkB is the first such enzyme that was
discovered to repair methylated nucleic acids, which are otherwise cytotoxic
and/or mutagenic. AlkB human homologues are known to play pivotal roles in
various processes. Here we present structural characterization of oxidation
intermediates for these demethylases. Using a chemical cross-linking strategy,
complexes of AlkB-double stranded DNA (dsDNA) containing 1,N(6)-etheno adenine
(εA), N(3)-methyl thymine (3-meT) and N(3)-methyl cytosine (3-meC) are stabilized
and crystallized, respectively. Exposing these crystals, grown under anaerobic
conditions containing iron(II) and α-ketoglutarate (αKG), to dioxygen initiates
oxidation in crystallo. Glycol (from εA) and hemiaminal (from 3-meT)
intermediates are captured; a zwitterionic intermediate (from 3-meC) is also
proposed, based on crystallographic observations and computational analysis. The 
observation of these unprecedented intermediates provides direct support for the 
oxidative demethylation mechanism for these demethylases. This study also depicts
a general mechanistic view of how a methyl group is oxidatively removed from
different biological substrates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09497 
PMCID: PMC3058853
PMID: 21068844  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):326-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09517.

The mechanism of retroviral integration from X-ray structures of its key
intermediates.

Maertens GN(1), Hare S, Cherepanov P.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Imperial College London, St Mary's Campus,
Norfolk Place, London W2 1PG, UK.

To establish productive infection, a retrovirus must insert a DNA replica of its 
genome into host cell chromosomal DNA. This process is operated by the intasome, 
a nucleoprotein complex composed of an integrase tetramer (IN) assembled on the
viral DNA ends. The intasome engages chromosomal DNA within a target capture
complex to carry out strand transfer, irreversibly joining the viral and cellular
DNA molecules. Although several intasome/transpososome structures from the DDE(D)
recombinase superfamily have been reported, the mechanics of target DNA capture
and strand transfer by these enzymes remained unclear. Here we report crystal
structures of the intasome from prototype foamy virus in complex with target DNA,
elucidating the pre-integration target DNA capture and post-catalytic strand
transfer intermediates of the retroviral integration process. The cleft between
IN dimers within the intasome accommodates chromosomal DNA in a severely bent
conformation, allowing widely spaced IN active sites to access the scissile
phosphodiester bonds. Our results resolve the structural basis for retroviral DNA
integration and provide a framework for the design of INs with altered target
sequences.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09517 
PMCID: PMC2999894
PMID: 21068843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):310-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09493.

Inductive angiocrine signals from sinusoidal endothelium are required for liver
regeneration.

Ding BS(1), Nolan DJ, Butler JM, James D, Babazadeh AO, Rosenwaks Z, Mittal V,
Kobayashi H, Shido K, Lyden D, Sato TN, Rabbany SY, Rafii S.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Ansary Stem Cell Institute, and Department of
Genetic Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    J Hepatol. 2011 Aug;55(2):488-90.
    Hepatology. 2011 Aug;54(2):731-3.

During embryogenesis, endothelial cells induce organogenesis before the
development of circulation. These findings suggest that endothelial cells not
only form passive conduits to deliver nutrients and oxygen, but also establish an
instructive vascular niche, which through elaboration of paracrine trophogens
stimulates organ regeneration, in a manner similar to endothelial-cell-derived
angiocrine factors that support haematopoiesis. However, the precise mechanism by
which tissue-specific subsets of endothelial cells promote organogenesis in
adults is unknown. Here we demonstrate that liver sinusoidal endothelial cells
(LSECs) constitute a unique population of phenotypically and functionally defined
VEGFR3(+)CD34(-)VEGFR2(+)VE-cadherin(+)FactorVIII(+)CD45(-) endothelial cells,
which through the release of angiocrine trophogens initiate and sustain liver
regeneration induced by 70% partial hepatectomy. After partial hepatectomy,
residual liver vasculature remains intact without experiencing hypoxia or
structural damage, which allows study of physiological liver regeneration. Using 
this model, we show that inducible genetic ablation of vascular endothelial
growth factor (VEGF)-A receptor-2 (VEGFR2) in the LSECs impairs the initial burst
of hepatocyte proliferation (days 1-3 after partial hepatectomy) and subsequent
reconstitution of the hepatovascular mass (days 4-8 after partial hepatectomy) by
inhibiting upregulation of the endothelial-cell-specific transcription factor
Id1. Accordingly, Id1-deficient mice also manifest defects throughout liver
regeneration, owing to diminished expression of LSEC-derived angiocrine factors, 
including hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and Wnt2. Notably, in in vitro
co-cultures, VEGFR2-Id1 activation in LSECs stimulates hepatocyte proliferation. 
Indeed, intrasplenic transplantation of Id1(+/+) or Id1(-/-) LSECs transduced
with Wnt2 and HGF (Id1(-/-)Wnt2(+)HGF(+) LSECs) re-establishes an inductive
vascular niche in the liver sinusoids of the Id1(-/-) mice, initiating and
restoring hepatovascular regeneration. Therefore, in the early phases of
physiological liver regeneration, VEGFR2-Id1-mediated inductive angiogenesis in
LSECs through release of angiocrine factors Wnt2 and HGF provokes hepatic
proliferation. Subsequently, VEGFR2-Id1-dependent proliferative angiogenesis
reconstitutes liver mass. Therapeutic co-transplantation of inductive
VEGFR2(+)Id1(+)Wnt2(+)HGF(+) LSECs with hepatocytes provides an effective
strategy to achieve durable liver regeneration.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09493 
PMCID: PMC3058628
PMID: 21068842  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):300-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09545.

ON and OFF pathways in Drosophila motion vision.

Joesch M(1), Schnell B, Raghu SV, Reiff DF, Borst A.

Author information: 
(1)MPI for Neurobiology, Department of Systems and Computational Neurobiology, Am
Klopferspitz 18, 82152 Martinsried, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):178-9.

Motion vision is a major function of all visual systems, yet the underlying
neural mechanisms and circuits are still elusive. In the lamina, the first optic 
neuropile of Drosophila melanogaster, photoreceptor signals split into five
parallel pathways, L1-L5. Here we examine how these pathways contribute to visual
motion detection by combining genetic block and reconstitution of neural activity
in different lamina cell types with whole-cell recordings from downstream
motion-sensitive neurons. We find reduced responses to moving gratings if L1 or
L2 is blocked; however, reconstitution of photoreceptor input to only L1 or L2
results in wild-type responses. Thus, the first experiment indicates the
necessity of both pathways, whereas the second indicates sufficiency of each
single pathway. This contradiction can be explained by electrical coupling
between L1 and L2, allowing for activation of both pathways even when only one of
them receives photoreceptor input. A fundamental difference between the L1
pathway and the L2 pathway is uncovered when blocking L1 or L2 output while
presenting moving edges of positive (ON) or negative (OFF) contrast polarity:
blocking L1 eliminates the response to moving ON edges, whereas blocking L2
eliminates the response to moving OFF edges. Thus, similar to the segregation of 
photoreceptor signals in ON and OFF bipolar cell pathways in the vertebrate
retina, photoreceptor signals segregate into ON-L1 and OFF-L2 channels in the
lamina of Drosophila.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09545 
PMID: 21068841  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):290-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09538.

Early oxygenation of the terrestrial environment during the Mesoproterozoic.

Parnell J(1), Boyce AJ, Mark D, Bowden S, Spinks S.

Author information: 
(1)School of Geosciences, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen AB24 3UE, UK.
j.parnell@abdn.ac.uk

Geochemical data from ancient sedimentary successions provide evidence for the
progressive evolution of Earth's atmosphere and oceans. Key stages in increasing 
oxygenation are postulated for the Palaeoproterozoic era (∼2.3 billion years ago,
Gyr ago) and the late Proterozoic eon (about 0.8 Gyr ago), with the latter
implicated in the subsequent metazoan evolutionary expansion. In support of this 
rise in oxygen concentrations, a large database shows a marked change in the
bacterially mediated fractionation of seawater sulphate to sulphide of
Δ(34)S < 25‰ before 1 Gyr to ≥50‰ after 0.64 Gyr. This change in Δ(34)S has been 
interpreted to represent the evolution from single-step bacterial sulphate
reduction to a combination of bacterial sulphate reduction and sulphide
oxidation, largely bacterially mediated. This evolution is seen as marking the
rise in atmospheric oxygen concentrations and the evolution of non-photosynthetic
sulphide-oxidizing bacteria. Here we report Δ(34)S values exceeding 50‰ from a
terrestrial Mesoproterozoic (1.18 Gyr old) succession in Scotland, a time period 
that is at present poorly characterized. This level of fractionation implies
disproportionation in the sulphur cycle, probably involving sulphide-oxidizing
bacteria, that is not evident from Δ(34)S data in the marine record.
Disproportionation in both red beds and lacustrine black shales at our study site
suggests that the Mesoproterozoic terrestrial environment was sufficiently
oxygenated to support a biota that was adapted to an oxygen-rich atmosphere, but 
had also penetrated into subsurface sediment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09538 
PMID: 21068840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):286-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09541.

Ultrathin compound semiconductor on insulator layers for high-performance
nanoscale transistors.

Ko H(1), Takei K, Kapadia R, Chuang S, Fang H, Leu PW, Ganapathi K, Plis E, Kim
HS, Chen SY, Madsen M, Ford AC, Chueh YL, Krishna S, Salahuddin S, Javey A.

Author information: 
(1)Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, University of California,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):177-8.

Over the past several years, the inherent scaling limitations of silicon (Si)
electron devices have fuelled the exploration of alternative semiconductors, with
high carrier mobility, to further enhance device performance. In particular,
compound semiconductors heterogeneously integrated on Si substrates have been
actively studied: such devices combine the high mobility of III-V semiconductors 
and the well established, low-cost processing of Si technology. This integration,
however, presents significant challenges. Conventionally, heteroepitaxial growth 
of complex multilayers on Si has been explored-but besides complexity, high
defect densities and junction leakage currents present limitations in this
approach. Motivated by this challenge, here we use an epitaxial transfer method
for the integration of ultrathin layers of single-crystal InAs on Si/SiO(2)
substrates. As a parallel with silicon-on-insulator (SOI) technology, we use
'XOI' to represent our compound semiconductor-on-insulator platform. Through
experiments and simulation, the electrical properties of InAs XOI transistors are
explored, elucidating the critical role of quantum confinement in the transport
properties of ultrathin XOI layers. Importantly, a high-quality InAs/dielectric
interface is obtained by the use of a novel thermally grown interfacial InAsO(x) 
layer (~1 nm thick). The fabricated field-effect transistors exhibit a peak
transconductance of ~1.6 mS µm(-1) at a drain-source voltage of 0.5 V, with an
on/off current ratio of greater than 10,000.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09541 
PMID: 21068839 


131. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):283-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09477.

Hidden magnetic excitation in the pseudogap phase of a high-T(c) superconductor.

Li Y(1), Balédent V, Yu G, Barišić N, Hradil K, Mole RA, Sidis Y, Steffens P,
Zhao X, Bourges P, Greven M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):184-5.

The elucidation of the pseudogap phenomenon of the high-transition-temperature
(high-T(c)) copper oxides-a set of anomalous physical properties below the
characteristic temperature T* and above T(c)-has been a major challenge in
condensed matter physics for the past two decades. Following initial indications 
of broken time-reversal symmetry in photoemission experiments, recent polarized
neutron diffraction work demonstrated the universal existence of an unusual
magnetic order below T* (refs 3, 4). These findings have the profound implication
that the pseudogap regime constitutes a genuine new phase of matter rather than a
mere crossover phenomenon. They are furthermore consistent with a particular type
of order involving circulating orbital currents, and with the notion that the
phase diagram is controlled by a quantum critical point. Here we report inelastic
neutron scattering results for HgBa(2)CuO(4+δ) that reveal a fundamental
collective magnetic mode associated with the unusual order, and which further
support this picture. The mode's intensity rises below the same temperature T*
and its dispersion is weak, as expected for an Ising-like order parameter. Its
energy of 52-56 meV renders it a new candidate for the hitherto unexplained
ubiquitous electron-boson coupling features observed in spectroscopic studies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09477 
PMID: 21068838 


132. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):277-82. doi: 10.1038/nature09559.

Encoding of conditioned fear in central amygdala inhibitory circuits.

Ciocchi S(1), Herry C, Grenier F, Wolff SB, Letzkus JJ, Vlachos I, Ehrlich I,
Sprengel R, Deisseroth K, Stadler MB, Müller C, Lüthi A.

Author information: 
(1)Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research, Maulbeerstrasse 66, 4058
Basel, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Jan;12(1):2.

The central amygdala (CEA), a nucleus predominantly composed of GABAergic
inhibitory neurons, is essential for fear conditioning. How the acquisition and
expression of conditioned fear are encoded within CEA inhibitory circuits is not 
understood. Using in vivo electrophysiological, optogenetic and pharmacological
approaches in mice, we show that neuronal activity in the lateral subdivision of 
the central amygdala (CEl) is required for fear acquisition, whereas conditioned 
fear responses are driven by output neurons in the medial subdivision (CEm).
Functional circuit analysis revealed that inhibitory CEA microcircuits are highly
organized and that cell-type-specific plasticity of phasic and tonic activity in 
the CEl to CEm pathway may gate fear expression and regulate fear generalization.
Our results define the functional architecture of CEA microcircuits and their
role in the acquisition and regulation of conditioned fear behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09559 
PMID: 21068837  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):270-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09553.

Genetic dissection of an amygdala microcircuit that gates conditioned fear.

Haubensak W(1), Kunwar PS, Cai H, Ciocchi S, Wall NR, Ponnusamy R, Biag J, Dong
HW, Deisseroth K, Callaway EM, Fanselow MS, Lüthi A, Anderson DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology 216-76, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California 91125, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Jan;12(1):2.

The role of different amygdala nuclei (neuroanatomical subdivisions) in
processing Pavlovian conditioned fear has been studied extensively, but the
function of the heterogeneous neuronal subtypes within these nuclei remains
poorly understood. Here we use molecular genetic approaches to map the functional
connectivity of a subpopulation of GABA-containing neurons, located in the
lateral subdivision of the central amygdala (CEl), which express protein kinase
C-δ (PKC-δ). Channelrhodopsin-2-assisted circuit mapping in amygdala slices and
cell-specific viral tracing indicate that PKC-δ(+) neurons inhibit output neurons
in the medial central amygdala (CEm), and also make reciprocal inhibitory
synapses with PKC-δ(-) neurons in CEl. Electrical silencing of PKC-δ(+) neurons
in vivo suggests that they correspond to physiologically identified units that
are inhibited by the conditioned stimulus, called CEl(off) units. This
correspondence, together with behavioural data, defines an inhibitory
microcircuit in CEl that gates CEm output to control the level of conditioned
freezing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09553 
PMCID: PMC3597095
PMID: 21068836  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):263-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09582.

Dysfunction in GABA signalling mediates autism-like stereotypies and Rett
syndrome phenotypes.

Chao HT(1), Chen H, Samaco RC, Xue M, Chahrour M, Yoo J, Neul JL, Gong S, Lu HC, 
Heintz N, Ekker M, Rubenstein JL, Noebels JL, Rosenmund C, Zoghbi HY.

Author information: 
(1)]Department of Neuroscience, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030,
USA.

Mutations in the X-linked MECP2 gene, which encodes the transcriptional regulator
methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2), cause Rett syndrome and several
neurodevelopmental disorders including cognitive disorders, autism,
juvenile-onset schizophrenia and encephalopathy with early lethality. Rett
syndrome is characterized by apparently normal early development followed by
regression, motor abnormalities, seizures and features of autism, especially
stereotyped behaviours. The mechanisms mediating these features are poorly
understood. Here we show that mice lacking Mecp2 from GABA (γ-aminobutyric
acid)-releasing neurons recapitulate numerous Rett syndrome and autistic
features, including repetitive behaviours. Loss of MeCP2 from a subset of
forebrain GABAergic neurons also recapitulates many features of Rett syndrome.
MeCP2-deficient GABAergic neurons show reduced inhibitory quantal size,
consistent with a presynaptic reduction in glutamic acid decarboxylase 1 (Gad1)
and glutamic acid decarboxylase 2 (Gad2) levels, and GABA immunoreactivity. These
data demonstrate that MeCP2 is critical for normal function of GABA-releasing
neurons and that subtle dysfunction of GABAergic neurons contributes to numerous 
neuropsychiatric phenotypes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09582 
PMCID: PMC3057962
PMID: 21068835  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):253-62. doi: 10.1038/nature09615.

The myeloid cells of the central nervous system parenchyma.

Ransohoff RM(1), Cardona AE.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroinflammation Research Center (Department of Neurosciences, Lerner
Research Institute) and Mellen Center for MS Treatment and Research (Neurological
Institute), Cleveland Clinic, Mail Code NC30, 9500 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44195, USA. ransohr@ccf.org

A microglial cell is both a glial cell of the central nervous system and a
mononuclear phagocyte, which belongs to the haematopoietic system and is involved
in inflammatory and immune responses. As such, microglia face a challenging task.
The neurons of the central nervous system cannot divide and be replenished, and
therefore need to be protected against pathogens, which is a key role of the
immune system, but without collateral damage. In addition, after physical injury,
neural cells need restorative support, which is provided by inflammatory
responses. Excessive or chronic inflammatory responses can, however, be harmful. 
How microglia balance these demands, and how their behaviour can be modified to
ameliorate disorders of the central nervous system, is becoming clear.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09615 
PMID: 21068834  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):244-52. doi: 10.1038/nature09614.

Myelination and support of axonal integrity by glia.

Nave KA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurogenetics, Max Planck Institute of Experimental Medicine,
Hermann-Rein-Strasse 3, 37075 Göttingen, Germany. nave@em.mpg.de

The myelination of axons by glial cells was the last major step in the evolution 
of cells in the vertebrate nervous system, and white-matter tracts are key to the
architecture of the mammalian brain. Cell biology and mouse genetics have
provided insight into axon-glia signalling and the molecular architecture of the 
myelin sheath. Glial cells that myelinate axons were found to have a dual role by
also supporting the long-term integrity of those axons. This function may be
independent of myelin itself. Myelin abnormalities cause a number of neurological
diseases, and may also contribute to complex neuropsychiatric disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09614 
PMID: 21068833  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):232-43. doi: 10.1038/nature09613.

Glial and neuronal control of brain blood flow.

Attwell D(1), Buchan AM, Charpak S, Lauritzen M, Macvicar BA, Newman EA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Physiology and Pharmacology, University College
London, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK. d.attwell@ucl.ac.uk

Blood flow in the brain is regulated by neurons and astrocytes. Knowledge of how 
these cells control blood flow is crucial for understanding how neural
computation is powered, for interpreting functional imaging scans of brains, and 
for developing treatments for neurological disorders. It is now recognized that
neurotransmitter-mediated signalling has a key role in regulating cerebral blood 
flow, that much of this control is mediated by astrocytes, that oxygen modulates 
blood flow regulation, and that blood flow may be controlled by capillaries as
well as by arterioles. These conceptual shifts in our understanding of cerebral
blood flow control have important implications for the development of new
therapeutic approaches.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09613 
PMCID: PMC3206737
PMID: 21068832  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):223-31. doi: 10.1038/nature09612.

Regulation of synaptic connectivity by glia.

Eroglu C(1), Barres BA.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology Department, Box 3709, Duke University Medical Center, Durham,
North Carolina 27710, USA. c.eroglu@cellbio.duke.edu

The human brain contains more than 100 trillion (10(14)) synaptic connections,
which form all of its neural circuits. Neuroscientists have long been interested 
in how this complex synaptic web is weaved during development and remodelled
during learning and disease. Recent studies have uncovered that glial cells are
important regulators of synaptic connectivity. These cells are far more active
than was previously thought and are powerful controllers of synapse formation,
function, plasticity and elimination, both in health and disease. Understanding
how signalling between glia and neurons regulates synaptic development will offer
new insight into how the nervous system works and provide new targets for the
treatment of neurological diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09612 
PMCID: PMC4431554
PMID: 21068831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):214-22. doi: 10.1038/nature09611.

Developmental genetics of vertebrate glial-cell specification.

Rowitch DH(1), Kriegstein AR.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of California, San Francisco, USA.
rowitchd@peds.ucsf.edu

Oligodendrocytes and astrocytes are macroglial cells of the vertebrate central
nervous system. These cells have diverse roles in the maintenance of neurological
function. In the embryo, the genetic mechanisms that underlie the specification
of macroglial precursors in vivo appear strikingly similar to those that regulate
the development of the diverse neuron types. The switch from producing neuronal
to glial subtype-specific precursors can be modelled as an interplay between
region-restricted components and temporal regulators that determine neurogenic or
gliogenic phases of development, contributing to glial diversity. Gaining insight
into the developmental genetics of macroglia has great potential to improve our
understanding of a variety of neurological disorders in humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09611 
PMID: 21068830  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):203-12. doi: 10.1038/nature09563.

The environment and schizophrenia.

van Os J(1), Kenis G, Rutten BP.

Author information: 
(1)European Graduate School for Neuroscience, SEARCH, Maastricht University
Medical Centre, 6200 MD Maastricht, The Netherlands. j.vanos@sp.unimaas.nl

Psychotic syndromes can be understood as disorders of adaptation to social
context. Although heritability is often emphasized, onset is associated with
environmental factors such as early life adversity, growing up in an urban
environment, minority group position and cannabis use, suggesting that exposure
may have an impact on the developing 'social' brain during sensitive periods.
Therefore heritability, as an index of genetic influence, may be of limited
explanatory power unless viewed in the context of interaction with social
effects. Longitudinal research is needed to uncover gene-environment interplay
that determines how expression of vulnerability in the general population may
give rise to more severe psychopathology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09563 
PMID: 21068828  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):194-202. doi: 10.1038/nature09569.

From maps to mechanisms through neuroimaging of schizophrenia.

Meyer-Lindenberg A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute of Mental Health, University of Heidelberg/Medical Faculty
Mannheim, J5, 68159 Mannheim, Germany. a.meyer-lindenberg@zi-mannheim.de

Functional and structural brain imaging has identified neural and
neurotransmitter systems involved in schizophrenia and their link to cognitive
and behavioural disturbances such as psychosis. Mapping such abnormalities in
patients, however, cannot fully capture the strong neurodevelopmental component
of schizophrenia that pre-dates manifest illness. A recent strategy to address
this issue has been to focus on mechanisms of disease risk. Imaging genetics
techniques have made it possible to define neural systems that mediate heritable 
risk linked to candidate and genome-wide-supported common variants, and
mechanisms for environmental risk and gene-environment interactions are emerging.
Characterizing the neural risk architecture of schizophrenia provides a
translational research strategy for future treatments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09569 
PMID: 21068827  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):187-93. doi: 10.1038/nature09552.

Rethinking schizophrenia.

Insel TR(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Mental Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
tinsel@mail.nih.gov

How will we view schizophrenia in 2030? Schizophrenia today is a chronic,
frequently disabling mental disorder that affects about one per cent of the
world's population. After a century of studying schizophrenia, the cause of the
disorder remains unknown. Treatments, especially pharmacological treatments, have
been in wide use for nearly half a century, yet there is little evidence that
these treatments have substantially improved outcomes for most people with
schizophrenia. These current unsatisfactory outcomes may change as we approach
schizophrenia as a neurodevelopmental disorder with psychosis as a late,
potentially preventable stage of the illness. This 'rethinking' of schizophrenia 
as a neurodevelopmental disorder, which is profoundly different from the way we
have seen this illness for the past century, yields new hope for prevention and
cure over the next two decades.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09552 
PMID: 21068826  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):294-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09520. Epub 2010 Nov 3.

Sequential faulting explains the asymmetry and extension discrepancy of conjugate
margins.

Ranero CR(1), Pérez-Gussinyé M.

Author information: 
(1)ICREA at CSIC, Barcelona Center for Subsurface Imaging, Instituto de Ciencias 
del Mar, CSIC, Passeig Marítim de la Barcelona 37-49, 08003, Barcelona, Spain.
cranero@icm.csic.es

During early extension, cold continental lithosphere thins and subsides, creating
rift basins. If extension continues to final break-up, the split and greatly
thinned plates subside deep below sea level to form a conjugate pair of rifted
margins. Although basins and margins are ubiquitous structures, the deformation
processes leading from moderately extended basins to highly stretched margins are
unclear, as studies consistently report that crustal thinning is greater than
extension caused by brittle faulting. This extension discrepancy might arise from
differential stretching of brittle and ductile crustal layers, but that does not 
readily explain the typical asymmetric structure of conjugate margins-in
cross-section, one margin displays gradual thinning accompanied by large faults, 
and the conjugate margin displays abrupt thinning but smaller-scale faulting.
Whole-crust detachments, active from early in the rifting, could in theory create
both thinning and asymmetry, but are mechanically problematical. Furthermore, the
extension discrepancy occurs at both conjugate margins, leading to the apparent
contradiction that both seem to be upper plates to a detachment fault.
Alternative models propose that much brittle extension is undetected because of
seismic imaging limitations caused either by subseismic-resolution faulting,
invisible deformation along top-basement 100-km-scale detachments or the
structural complexity of cross-cutting arrays of faults. Here we use
depth-migrated seismic images to accurately measure fault extension and compare
it with crustal thinning. The observations are used to create a balanced
kinematic model of rifting that resolves the extension discrepancy by producing
both fault-controlled crustal thinning which progresses from a rift basin to the 
asymmetric structure, and extreme thinning of conjugate rifted margins. Contrary 
to current wisdom, the observations support the idea that thinning is to a first 
degree explained by simple Andersonian faulting that is unambiguously visible in 
seismic data.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09520 
PMID: 21048712 


144. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):305-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09511. Epub 2010 Nov 3.

Reducing excessive GABA-mediated tonic inhibition promotes functional recovery
after stroke.

Clarkson AN(1), Huang BS, Macisaac SE, Mody I, Carmichael ST.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, The David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, 635
Charles Young Drive South, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):176-7.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2011 Jan;10(1):20-1.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Jan;12(1):4.

Stroke is a leading cause of disability, but no pharmacological therapy is
currently available for promoting recovery. The brain region adjacent to stroke
damage-the peri-infarct zone-is critical for rehabilitation, as it shows
heightened neuroplasticity, allowing sensorimotor functions to re-map from
damaged areas. Thus, understanding the neuronal properties constraining this
plasticity is important for the development of new treatments. Here we show that 
after a stroke in mice, tonic neuronal inhibition is increased in the
peri-infarct zone. This increased tonic inhibition is mediated by extrasynaptic
GABA(A) receptors and is caused by an impairment in GABA (γ-aminobutyric acid)
transporter (GAT-3/GAT-4) function. To counteract the heightened inhibition, we
administered in vivo a benzodiazepine inverse agonist specific for
α5-subunit-containing extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors at a delay after stroke.
This treatment produced an early and sustained recovery of motor function.
Genetically lowering the number of α5- or δ-subunit-containing GABA(A) receptors 
responsible for tonic inhibition also proved beneficial for recovery after
stroke, consistent with the therapeutic potential of diminishing extrasynaptic
GABA(A) receptor function. Together, our results identify new pharmacological
targets and provide the rationale for a novel strategy to promote recovery after 
stroke and possibly other brain injuries.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09511 
PMCID: PMC3058798
PMID: 21048709  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):321-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09529. Epub 2010 Oct 20.

Aneuploidy confers quantitative proteome changes and phenotypic variation in
budding yeast.

Pavelka N(1), Rancati G, Zhu J, Bradford WD, Saraf A, Florens L, Sanderson BW,
Hattem GL, Li R.

Author information: 
(1)Stowers Institute for Medical Research, 1000 East 50th Street, Kansas City,
Missouri 64110, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):183-4.

Aneuploidy, referring here to genome contents characterized by abnormal numbers
of chromosomes, has been associated with developmental defects, cancer and
adaptive evolution in experimental organisms. However, it remains unresolved how 
aneuploidy impacts gene expression and whether aneuploidy could directly bring
about phenotypic variation and improved fitness over that of euploid
counterparts. Here we show, using quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics
and phenotypic profiling, that levels of protein expression in aneuploid yeast
strains largely scale with chromosome copy numbers, following the same trend as
that observed for the transcriptome, and that aneuploidy confers diverse
phenotypes. We designed a novel scheme to generate, through random meiotic
segregation, 38 stable and fully isogenic aneuploid yeast strains with distinct
karyotypes and genome contents between 1N and 3N without involving any genetic
selection. Through quantitative growth assays under various conditions or in the 
presence of a panel of chemotherapeutic or antifungal drugs, we found that some
aneuploid strains grew significantly better than euploid control strains under
conditions suboptimal for the latter. These results provide strong evidence that 
aneuploidy directly affects gene expression at both the transcriptome and
proteome levels and can generate significant phenotypic variation that could
bring about fitness gains under diverse conditions. Our findings suggest that the
fitness ranking between euploid and aneuploid cells is dependent on context and
karyotype, providing the basis for the notion that aneuploidy can directly
underlie phenotypic evolution and cellular adaptation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09529 
PMCID: PMC2978756
PMID: 20962780  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):316-20. doi: 10.1038/nature09531. Epub 2010 Oct 17.

A genome-wide RNAi screen reveals determinants of human embryonic stem cell
identity.

Chia NY(1), Chan YS, Feng B, Lu X, Orlov YL, Moreau D, Kumar P, Yang L, Jiang J, 
Lau MS, Huss M, Soh BS, Kraus P, Li P, Lufkin T, Lim B, Clarke ND, Bard F, Ng HH.

Author information: 
(1)Gene Regulation Laboratory, Genome Institute of Singapore, 60 Biopolis Street,
Singapore 138672.

The derivation of human ES cells (hESCs) from human blastocysts represents one of
the milestones in stem cell biology. The full potential of hESCs in research and 
clinical applications requires a detailed understanding of the genetic network
that governs the unique properties of hESCs. Here, we report a genome-wide RNA
interference screen to identify genes which regulate self-renewal and
pluripotency properties in hESCs. Interestingly, functionally distinct complexes 
involved in transcriptional regulation and chromatin remodelling are among the
factors identified in the screen. To understand the roles of these potential
regulators of hESCs, we studied transcription factor PRDM14 to gain new insights 
into its functional roles in the regulation of pluripotency. We showed that
PRDM14 regulates directly the expression of key pluripotency gene POU5F1 through 
its proximal enhancer. Genome-wide location profiling experiments revealed that
PRDM14 colocalized extensively with other key transcription factors such as OCT4,
NANOG and SOX2, indicating that PRDM14 is integrated into the core
transcriptional regulatory network. More importantly, in a gain-of-function
assay, we showed that PRDM14 is able to enhance the efficiency of reprogramming
of human fibroblasts in conjunction with OCT4, SOX2 and KLF4. Altogether, our
study uncovers a wealth of novel hESC regulators wherein PRDM14 exemplifies a key
transcription factor required for the maintenance of hESC identity and the
reacquisition of pluripotency in human somatic cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09531 
PMID: 20953172  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):84-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09508.

Reversed flow of Atlantic deep water during the Last Glacial Maximum.

Negre C(1), Zahn R, Thomas AL, Masqué P, Henderson GM, Martínez-Méndez G, Hall
IR, Mas JL.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Ciència i Tecnologia Ambientals (ICTA), Universitat Autònoma de
Barcelona, 08193 Bellaterra, Spain. cesar@negre.us

The meridional overturning circulation (MOC) of the Atlantic Ocean is considered 
to be one of the most important components of the climate system. This is because
its warm surface currents, such as the Gulf Stream, redistribute huge amounts of 
energy from tropical to high latitudes and influence regional weather and climate
patterns, whereas its lower limb ventilates the deep ocean and affects the
storage of carbon in the abyss, away from the atmosphere. Despite its
significance for future climate, the operation of the MOC under contrasting
climates of the past remains controversial. Nutrient-based proxies and recent
model simulations indicate that during the Last Glacial Maximum the convective
activity in the North Atlantic Ocean was much weaker than at present. In
contrast, rate-sensitive radiogenic (231)Pa/(230)Th isotope ratios from the North
Atlantic have been interpreted to indicate only minor changes in MOC strength.
Here we show that the basin-scale abyssal circulation of the Atlantic Ocean was
probably reversed during the Last Glacial Maximum and was dominated by northward 
water flow from the Southern Ocean. These conclusions are based on new
high-resolution data from the South Atlantic Ocean that establish the basin-scale
north to south gradient in (231)Pa/(230)Th, and thus the direction of the deep
ocean circulation. Our findings are consistent with nutrient-based proxies and
argue that further analysis of (231)Pa/(230)Th outside the North Atlantic basin
will enhance our understanding of past ocean circulation, provided that spatial
gradients are carefully considered. This broader perspective suggests that the
modern pattern of the Atlantic MOC-with a prominent southerly flow of deep waters
originating in the North Atlantic-arose only during the Holocene epoch.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09508 
PMID: 21048764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):80-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09521.

Holographic three-dimensional telepresence using large-area photorefractive
polymer.

Blanche PA(1), Bablumian A, Voorakaranam R, Christenson C, Lin W, Gu T, Flores D,
Wang P, Hsieh WY, Kathaperumal M, Rachwal B, Siddiqui O, Thomas J, Norwood RA,
Yamamoto M, Peyghambarian N.

Author information: 
(1)College of Optical Sciences, The University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721,
USA.

Holography is a technique that is used to display objects or scenes in three
dimensions. Such three-dimensional (3D) images, or holograms, can be seen with
the unassisted eye and are very similar to how humans see the actual environment 
surrounding them. The concept of 3D telepresence, a real-time dynamic hologram
depicting a scene occurring in a different location, has attracted considerable
public interest since it was depicted in the original Star Wars film in 1977.
However, the lack of sufficient computational power to produce realistic
computer-generated holograms and the absence of large-area and dynamically
updatable holographic recording media have prevented realization of the concept. 
Here we use a holographic stereographic technique and a photorefractive polymer
material as the recording medium to demonstrate a holographic display that can
refresh images every two seconds. A 50 Hz nanosecond pulsed laser is used to
write the holographic pixels. Multicoloured holographic 3D images are produced by
using angular multiplexing, and the full parallax display employs spatial
multiplexing. 3D telepresence is demonstrated by taking multiple images from one 
location and transmitting the information via Ethernet to another location where 
the hologram is printed with the quasi-real-time dynamic 3D display. Further
improvements could bring applications in telemedicine, prototyping, advertising, 
updatable 3D maps and entertainment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09521 
PMID: 21048763 


149. Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):67-71. doi: 10.1038/nature09523.

The CRISPR/Cas bacterial immune system cleaves bacteriophage and plasmid DNA.

Garneau JE(1), Dupuis MÈ, Villion M, Romero DA, Barrangou R, Boyaval P, Fremaux
C, Horvath P, Magadán AH, Moineau S.

Author information: 
(1)Département de biochimie, de microbiologie et de bio-informatique, Faculté des
sciences et de génie, Groupe de recherche en écologie buccale, Faculté de
médecine dentaire, Félix d'Hérelle Reference Center for Bacterial Viruses,
Université Laval, Quebec City, Quebec G1V 0A6, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):45-6.

Bacteria and Archaea have developed several defence strategies against foreign
nucleic acids such as viral genomes and plasmids. Among them, clustered regularly
interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR) loci together with cas
(CRISPR-associated) genes form the CRISPR/Cas immune system, which involves
partially palindromic repeats separated by short stretches of DNA called spacers,
acquired from extrachromosomal elements. It was recently demonstrated that these 
variable loci can incorporate spacers from infecting bacteriophages and then
provide immunity against subsequent bacteriophage infections in a
sequence-specific manner. Here we show that the Streptococcus thermophilus
CRISPR1/Cas system can also naturally acquire spacers from a self-replicating
plasmid containing an antibiotic-resistance gene, leading to plasmid loss.
Acquired spacers that match antibiotic-resistance genes provide a novel means to 
naturally select bacteria that cannot uptake and disseminate such genes. We also 
provide in vivo evidence that the CRISPR1/Cas system specifically cleaves plasmid
and bacteriophage double-stranded DNA within the proto-spacer, at specific sites.
Our data show that the CRISPR/Cas immune system is remarkably adapted to cleave
invading DNA rapidly and has the potential for exploitation to generate safer
microbial strains.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09523 
PMID: 21048762  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):60-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09530.

Genomic and functional adaptation in surface ocean planktonic prokaryotes.

Yooseph S(1), Nealson KH, Rusch DB, McCrow JP, Dupont CL, Kim M, Johnson J,
Montgomery R, Ferriera S, Beeson K, Williamson SJ, Tovchigrechko A, Allen AE,
Zeigler LA, Sutton G, Eisenstadt E, Rogers YH, Friedman R, Frazier M, Venter JC.

Author information: 
(1)J. Craig Venter Institute, Rockville, Maryland 20850, USA.

The understanding of marine microbial ecology and metabolism has been hampered by
the paucity of sequenced reference genomes. To this end, we report the sequencing
of 137 diverse marine isolates collected from around the world. We analysed these
sequences, along with previously published marine prokaryotic genomes, in the
context of marine metagenomic data, to gain insights into the ecology of the
surface ocean prokaryotic picoplankton (0.1-3.0 μm size range). The results
suggest that the sequenced genomes define two microbial groups: one composed of
only a few taxa that are nearly always abundant in picoplanktonic communities,
and the other consisting of many microbial taxa that are rarely abundant. The
genomic content of the second group suggests that these microbes are capable of
slow growth and survival in energy-limited environments, and rapid growth in
energy-rich environments. By contrast, the abundant and cosmopolitan
picoplanktonic prokaryotes for which there is genomic representation have smaller
genomes, are probably capable of only slow growth and seem to be relatively
unable to sense or rapidly acclimate to energy-rich conditions. Their genomic
features also lead us to propose that one method used to avoid predation by
viruses and/or bacterivores is by means of slow growth and the maintenance of low
biomass.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09530 
PMID: 21048761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):56-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09506.

Quantum gravitational contributions to quantum electrodynamics.

Toms DJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Mathematics and Statistics, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon
Tyne NE1 7RU, UK. d.j.toms@newcastle.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):40-1.
    Nature. 2011 Nov 24;479(7374):E5-6; discussion E6.

Quantum electrodynamics describes the interactions of electrons and photons.
Electric charge (the gauge coupling constant) is energy dependent, and there is a
previous claim that charge is affected by gravity (described by general
relativity) with the implication that the charge is reduced at high energies.
However, that claim has been very controversial and the matter has not been
settled. Here I report an analysis (free from the earlier controversies)
demonstrating that quantum gravity corrections to quantum electrodynamics have a 
quadratic energy dependence that result in the electric charge vanishing at high 
energies, a result known as asymptotic freedom.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09506 
PMID: 21048760 


152. Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):49-55. doi: 10.1038/nature09527.

Early star-forming galaxies and the reionization of the Universe.

Robertson BE(1), Ellis RS, Dunlop JS, McLure RJ, Stark DP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy, California Institute of Technology, MC 249-17,
Pasadena, California 91125, USA. brant@astro.caltech.edu

Star-forming galaxies trace cosmic history. Recent observational progress with
the NASA Hubble Space Telescope has led to the discovery and study of the
earliest known galaxies, which correspond to a period when the Universe was only 
∼800 million years old. Intense ultraviolet radiation from these early galaxies
probably induced a major event in cosmic history: the reionization of
intergalactic hydrogen.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09527 
PMID: 21048759 


153. Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):E1; discussion E2. doi: 10.1038/nature09480.

Moulting tail feathers in a juvenile oviraptorisaur.

Prum RO(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, and Peabody Natural History
Museum, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06520-8150, USA.
richard.prum@Yale.edu

Comment on
    Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1338-41.

Xu et al. describe the extraordinarily preserved feathers from two subadults of
the oviraptorisaur Similicaudipteryx from the Yixian Formation of Liaoning,
China. The preserved tail feathers of the juvenile specimen (STM4.1) show a
morphology not previously observed in any fossil feathers. The tail feathers of
an older, immature specimen (STM22-6) show a typical closed pennaceous structure 
with a prominent, planar vane. I propose that the feathers of the tail of the
juvenile specimen are not a specialized feather generation, but fossilized 'pin
feathers' or developing feather germs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09480 
PMID: 21048715  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):93-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09494. Epub 2010 Oct 20.

Antibodies to human serum amyloid P component eliminate visceral amyloid
deposits.

Bodin K(1), Ellmerich S, Kahan MC, Tennent GA, Loesch A, Gilbertson JA,
Hutchinson WL, Mangione PP, Gallimore JR, Millar DJ, Minogue S, Dhillon AP,
Taylor GW, Bradwell AR, Petrie A, Gillmore JD, Bellotti V, Botto M, Hawkins PN,
Pepys MB.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Amyloidosis and Acute Phase Proteins, Division of Medicine,
University College London, Royal Free Campus, Rowland Hill Street, London NW3
2PF, UK.

Accumulation of amyloid fibrils in the viscera and connective tissues causes
systemic amyloidosis, which is responsible for about one in a thousand deaths in 
developed countries. Localized amyloid can also have serious consequences; for
example, cerebral amyloid angiopathy is an important cause of haemorrhagic
stroke. The clinical presentations of amyloidosis are extremely diverse and the
diagnosis is rarely made before significant organ damage is present. There is
therefore a major unmet need for therapy that safely promotes the clearance of
established amyloid deposits. Over 20 different amyloid fibril proteins are
responsible for different forms of clinically significant amyloidosis and
treatments that substantially reduce the abundance of the respective amyloid
fibril precursor proteins can arrest amyloid accumulation. Unfortunately, control
of fibril-protein production is not possible in some forms of amyloidosis and in 
others it is often slow and hazardous. There is no therapy that directly targets 
amyloid deposits for enhanced clearance. However, all amyloid deposits contain
the normal, non-fibrillar plasma glycoprotein, serum amyloid P component (SAP).
Here we show that administration of anti-human-SAP antibodies to mice with
amyloid deposits containing human SAP triggers a potent, complement-dependent,
macrophage-derived giant cell reaction that swiftly removes massive visceral
amyloid deposits without adverse effects. Anti-SAP-antibody treatment is
clinically feasible because circulating human SAP can be depleted in patients by 
the bis-d-proline compound CPHPC, thereby enabling injected anti-SAP antibodies
to reach residual SAP in the amyloid deposits. The unprecedented capacity of this
novel combined therapy to eliminate amyloid deposits should be applicable to all 
forms of systemic and local amyloidosis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09494 
PMCID: PMC2975378
PMID: 20962779  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):77-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09463. Epub 2010 Oct 20.

Formation of the black-hole binary M33 X-7 through mass exchange in a tight
massive system.

Valsecchi F(1), Glebbeek E, Farr WM, Fragos T, Willems B, Orosz JA, Liu J,
Kalogera V.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Interdisciplinary Exploration and Research in Astrophysics (CIERA) 
and Department of Physics and Astronomy, Northwestern University, 2145 Sheridan
Road, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA. francesca@u.northwestern.edu

The X-ray source M33 X-7 in the nearby galaxy Messier 33 is among the most
massive X-ray binary stellar systems known, hosting a rapidly spinning, 15.65M(⊙)
black hole orbiting an underluminous, 70M(⊙) main-sequence companion in a
slightly eccentric 3.45-day orbit (M(⊙), solar mass). Although post-main-sequence
mass transfer explains the masses and tight orbit, it leaves unexplained the
observed X-ray luminosity, the star's underluminosity, the black hole's spin and 
the orbital eccentricity. A common envelope phase, or rotational mixing, could
explain the orbit, but the former would lead to a merger and the latter to an
overluminous companion. A merger would also ensue if mass transfer to the black
hole were invoked for its spin-up. Here we report simulations of evolutionary
tracks which reveal that if M33 X-7 started as a primary body of 85M(⊙)-99M(⊙)
and a secondary body of 28M(⊙)-32M(⊙), in a 2.8-3.1-d orbit, its observed
properties can be consistently explained. In this model, the main-sequence
primary transfers part of its envelope to the secondary and loses the rest in a
wind; it ends its life as a ∼16M(⊙) helium star with an iron-nickel core that
collapses to a black hole (with or without an accompanying supernova). The
release of binding energy, and possibly collapse asymmetries, 'kick' the nascent 
black hole into an eccentric orbit. Wind accretion explains the X-ray luminosity,
and the black-hole spin can be natal.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09463 
PMID: 20962778 


156. Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):112-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09470. Epub 2010 Oct 20.

A methyl transferase links the circadian clock to the regulation of alternative
splicing.

Sanchez SE(1), Petrillo E, Beckwith EJ, Zhang X, Rugnone ML, Hernando CE, Cuevas 
JC, Godoy Herz MA, Depetris-Chauvin A, Simpson CG, Brown JW, Cerdán PD, Borevitz 
JO, Mas P, Ceriani MF, Kornblihtt AR, Yanovsky MJ.

Author information: 
(1)IFEVA, Facultad de Agronomía, UBA-CONICET, C1417DSE Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Circadian rhythms allow organisms to time biological processes to the most
appropriate phases of the day-night cycle. Post-transcriptional regulation is
emerging as an important component of circadian networks, but the molecular
mechanisms linking the circadian clock to the control of RNA processing are
largely unknown. Here we show that PROTEIN ARGININE METHYL TRANSFERASE 5 (PRMT5),
which transfers methyl groups to arginine residues present in histones and Sm
spliceosomal proteins, links the circadian clock to the control of alternative
splicing in plants. Mutations in PRMT5 impair several circadian rhythms in
Arabidopsis thaliana and this phenotype is caused, at least in part, by a strong 
alteration in alternative splicing of the core-clock gene PSEUDO RESPONSE
REGULATOR 9 (PRR9). Furthermore, genome-wide studies show that PRMT5 contributes 
to the regulation of many pre-messenger-RNA splicing events, probably by
modulating 5'-splice-site recognition. PRMT5 expression shows daily and circadian
oscillations, and this contributes to the mediation of the circadian regulation
of expression and alternative splicing of a subset of genes. Circadian rhythms in
locomotor activity are also disrupted in dart5-1, a mutant affected in the
Drosophila melanogaster PRMT5 homologue, and this is associated with alterations 
in splicing of the core-clock gene period and several clock-associated genes. Our
results demonstrate a key role for PRMT5 in the regulation of alternative
splicing and indicate that the interplay between the circadian clock and the
regulation of alternative splicing by PRMT5 constitutes a common mechanism that
helps organisms to synchronize physiological processes with daily changes in
environmental conditions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09470 
PMID: 20962777  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):117-21. doi: 10.1038/nature09464. Epub 2010 Oct 17.

Identification of UBIAD1 as a novel human menaquinone-4 biosynthetic enzyme.

Nakagawa K(1), Hirota Y, Sawada N, Yuge N, Watanabe M, Uchino Y, Okuda N,
Shimomura Y, Suhara Y, Okano T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hygienic Sciences, Kobe Pharmaceutical University, 4-19-1,
Motoyamakita-machi, Higashinada-ku, Kobe 658-8558, Japan.

Vitamin K occurs in the natural world in several forms, including a plant form,
phylloquinone (PK), and a bacterial form, menaquinones (MKs). In many species,
including humans, PK is a minor constituent of hepatic vitamin K content, with
most hepatic vitamin K content comprising long-chain MKs. Menaquinone-4 (MK-4) is
ubiquitously present in extrahepatic tissues, with particularly high
concentrations in the brain, kidney and pancreas of humans and rats. It has
consistently been shown that PK is endogenously converted to MK-4 (refs 4-8).
This occurs either directly within certain tissues or by interconversion to
menadione (K(3)), followed by prenylation to MK-4 (refs 9-12). No previous study 
has sought to identify the human enzyme responsible for MK-4 biosynthesis.
Previously we provided evidence for the conversion of PK and K(3) into MK-4 in
mouse cerebra. However, the molecular mechanisms for these conversion reactions
are unclear. Here we identify a human MK-4 biosynthetic enzyme. We screened the
human genome database for prenylation enzymes and found UbiA prenyltransferase
containing 1 (UBIAD1), a human homologue of Escherichia coli prenyltransferase
menA. We found that short interfering RNA against the UBIAD1 gene inhibited the
conversion of deuterium-labelled vitamin K derivatives into
deuterium-labelled-MK-4 (MK-4-d(7)) in human cells. We confirmed that the UBIAD1 
gene encodes an MK-4 biosynthetic enzyme through its expression and conversion of
deuterium-labelled vitamin K derivatives into MK-4-d(7) in insect cells infected 
with UBIAD1 baculovirus. Converted MK-4-d(7) was chemically identified by
(2)H-NMR analysis. MK-4 biosynthesis by UBIAD1 was not affected by the vitamin K 
antagonist warfarin. UBIAD1 was localized in endoplasmic reticulum and
ubiquitously expressed in several tissues of mice. Our results show that UBIAD1
is a human MK-4 biosynthetic enzyme; this identification will permit more
effective decisions to be made about vitamin K intake and bone health.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09464 
PMID: 20953171  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):89-92. doi: 10.1038/nature09449. Epub 2010 Oct 13.

Higher rates of sex evolve in spatially heterogeneous environments.

Becks L(1), Agrawal AF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario M5S 3B2, Canada. lutz.becks@utoronto.ca

The evolution and maintenance of sexual reproduction has puzzled biologists for
decades. Although this field is rich in hypotheses, experimental evidence is
scarce. Some important experiments have demonstrated differences in evolutionary 
rates between sexual and asexual populations; other experiments have documented
evolutionary changes in phenomena related to genetic mixing, such as
recombination and selfing. However, direct experiments of the evolution of sex
within populations are extremely rare (but see ref. 12). Here we use the rotifer,
Brachionus calyciflorus, which is capable of both sexual and asexual
reproduction, to test recent theory predicting that there is more opportunity for
sex to evolve in spatially heterogeneous environments. Replicated experimental
populations of rotifers were maintained in homogeneous environments, composed of 
either high- or low-quality food habitats, or in heterogeneous environments that 
consisted of a mix of the two habitats. For populations maintained in either type
of homogeneous environment, the rate of sex evolves rapidly towards zero. In
contrast, higher rates of sex evolve in populations experiencing spatially
heterogeneous environments. The data indicate that the higher level of sex
observed under heterogeneity is not due to sex being less costly or selection
against sex being less efficient; rather sex is sufficiently advantageous in
heterogeneous environments to overwhelm its inherent costs. Counter to some
alternative theories for the evolution of sex, there is no evidence that genetic 
drift plays any part in the evolution of sex in these populations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09449 
PMID: 20944628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):72-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09450. Epub 2010 Oct 10.

Video imaging of walking myosin V by high-speed atomic force microscopy.

Kodera N(1), Yamamoto D, Ishikawa R, Ando T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Kanazawa University, Kakuma-machi, Kanazawa 920-1192,
Japan.

Comment in
    Biopolymers. 2011 Feb;95(2):v.
    Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):43.

The dynamic behaviour of myosin V molecules translocating along actin filaments
has been mainly studied by optical microscopy. The processive hand-over-hand
movement coupled with hydrolysis of adenosine triphosphate was thereby
demonstrated. However, the protein molecules themselves are invisible in the
observations and have therefore been visualized by electron microscopy in the
stationary states. The concomitant assessment of structure and dynamics has been 
unfeasible, a situation prevailing throughout biological research. Here we
directly visualize myosin V molecules walking along actin tracks, using
high-speed atomic force microscopy. The high-resolution movies not only provide
corroborative 'visual evidence' for previously speculated or demonstrated
molecular behaviours, including lever-arm swing, but also reveal more detailed
behaviours of the molecules, leading to a comprehensive understanding of the
motor mechanism. Our direct and dynamic high-resolution visualization is a
powerful new approach to studying the structure and dynamics of biomolecules in
action.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09450 
PMID: 20935627  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):108-11. doi: 10.1038/nature09505. Epub 2010 Oct 6.

A redox switch in angiotensinogen modulates angiotensin release.

Zhou A(1), Carrell RW, Murphy MP, Wei Z, Yan Y, Stanley PL, Stein PE, Broughton
Pipkin F, Read RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Haematology, Cambridge Institute for Medical Research,
University of Cambridge, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0XY, UK. awz20@cam.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):46-7.

Blood pressure is critically controlled by angiotensins, which are vasopressor
peptides specifically released by the enzyme renin from the tail of
angiotensinogen-a non-inhibitory member of the serpin family of protease
inhibitors. Although angiotensinogen has long been regarded as a passive
substrate, the crystal structures solved here to 2.1 Å resolution show that the
angiotensin cleavage site is inaccessibly buried in its amino-terminal tail. The 
conformational rearrangement that makes this site accessible for proteolysis is
revealed in our 4.4 Å structure of the complex of human angiotensinogen with
renin. The co-ordinated changes involved are seen to be critically linked by a
conserved but labile disulphide bridge. Here we show that the reduced unbridged
form of angiotensinogen is present in the circulation in a near 40:60 ratio with 
the oxidized sulphydryl-bridged form, which preferentially interacts with
receptor-bound renin. We propose that this redox-responsive transition of
angiotensinogen to a form that will more effectively release angiotensin at a
cellular level contributes to the modulation of blood pressure. Specifically, we 
demonstrate the oxidative switch of angiotensinogen to its more active
sulphydryl-bridged form in the maternal circulation in pre-eclampsia-the
hypertensive crisis of pregnancy that threatens the health and survival of both
mother and child.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09505 
PMCID: PMC3024006
PMID: 20927107  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):103-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09495. Epub 2010 Sep 29.

RANK ligand mediates progestin-induced mammary epithelial proliferation and
carcinogenesis.

Gonzalez-Suarez E(1), Jacob AP, Jones J, Miller R, Roudier-Meyer MP, Erwert R,
Pinkas J, Branstetter D, Dougall WC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology/Oncology Research, Amgen Inc, Seattle, Washington
98119, USA.

Comment in
    Breast Cancer Res. 2011;13(1):301.
    Breast Cancer Res. 2011;13(1):302.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2011 Jan;7(1):2.

RANK ligand (RANKL), a TNF-related molecule, is essential for osteoclast
formation, function and survival through interaction with its receptor RANK.
Mammary glands of RANK- and RANKL-deficient mice develop normally during sexual
maturation, but fail to form lobuloalveolar structures during pregnancy because
of defective proliferation and increased apoptosis of mammary epithelium. It has 
been shown that RANKL is responsible for the major proliferative response of
mouse mammary epithelium to progesterone during mammary lactational
morphogenesis, and in mouse models, manipulated to induce activation of the
RANK/RANKL pathway in the absence of strict hormonal control, inappropriate
mammary proliferation is observed. However, there is no evidence so far of a
functional contribution of RANKL to tumorigenesis. Here we show that RANK and
RANKL are expressed within normal, pre-malignant and neoplastic mammary
epithelium, and using complementary gain-of-function (mouse mammary tumour virus 
(MMTV)-RANK transgenic mice) and loss-of function (pharmacological inhibition of 
RANKL) approaches, define a direct contribution of this pathway in mammary
tumorigenesis. Accelerated pre-neoplasias and increased mammary tumour formation 
were observed in MMTV-RANK transgenic mice after multiparity or treatment with
carcinogen and hormone (progesterone). Reciprocally, selective pharmacological
inhibition of RANKL attenuated mammary tumour development not only in hormone-
and carcinogen-treated MMTV-RANK and wild-type mice, but also in the MMTV-neu
transgenic spontaneous tumour model. The reduction in tumorigenesis upon RANKL
inhibition was preceded by a reduction in pre-neoplasias as well as rapid and
sustained reductions in hormone- and carcinogen-induced mammary epithelial
proliferation and cyclin D1 levels. Collectively, our results indicate that RANKL
inhibition is acting directly on hormone-induced mammary epithelium at early
stages in tumorigenesis, and the permissive contribution of progesterone to
increased mammary cancer incidence is due to RANKL-dependent proliferative
changes in the mammary epithelium. The current study highlights a potential role 
for RANKL inhibition in the management of proliferative breast disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09495 
PMID: 20881963  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):98-102. doi: 10.1038/nature09387. Epub 2010 Sep 29.

Osteoclast differentiation factor RANKL controls development of progestin-driven 
mammary cancer.

Schramek D(1), Leibbrandt A, Sigl V, Kenner L, Pospisilik JA, Lee HJ, Hanada R,
Joshi PA, Aliprantis A, Glimcher L, Pasparakis M, Khokha R, Ormandy CJ,
Widschwendter M, Schett G, Penninger JM.

Author information: 
(1)IMBA, Institute of Molecular Biotechnology of the Austrian Academy of
Sciences, 1030 Vienna, Austria.

Comment in
    Breast Cancer Res. 2011;13(1):301.
    Breast Cancer Res. 2011;13(1):302.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2010 Nov;10(11):738.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2011 Jan;7(1):2.

Breast cancer is one of the most common cancers in humans and will on average
affect up to one in eight women in their lifetime in the United States and
Europe. The Women's Health Initiative and the Million Women Study have shown that
hormone replacement therapy is associated with an increased risk of incident and 
fatal breast cancer. In particular, synthetic progesterone derivatives
(progestins) such as medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA), used in millions of women
for hormone replacement therapy and contraceptives, markedly increase the risk of
developing breast cancer. Here we show that the in vivo administration of MPA
triggers massive induction of the key osteoclast differentiation factor RANKL
(receptor activator of NF-κB ligand) in mammary-gland epithelial cells. Genetic
inactivation of the RANKL receptor RANK in mammary-gland epithelial cells
prevents MPA-induced epithelial proliferation, impairs expansion of the CD49f(hi)
stem-cell-enriched population, and sensitizes these cells to DNA-damage-induced
cell death. Deletion of RANK from the mammary epithelium results in a markedly
decreased incidence and delayed onset of MPA-driven mammary cancer. These data
show that the RANKL/RANK system controls the incidence and onset of
progestin-driven breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09387 
PMCID: PMC3084017
PMID: 20881962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):1114-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09515.

Distant metastasis occurs late during the genetic evolution of pancreatic cancer.

Yachida S(1), Jones S, Bozic I, Antal T, Leary R, Fu B, Kamiyama M, Hruban RH,
Eshleman JR, Nowak MA, Velculescu VE, Kinzler KW, Vogelstein B, Iacobuzio-Donahue
CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, The Sol Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research Center,
Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, Maryland 21231, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):1053-5.
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2011 Jan;8(1):4.

Metastasis, the dissemination and growth of neoplastic cells in an organ distinct
from that in which they originated, is the most common cause of death in cancer
patients. This is particularly true for pancreatic cancers, where most patients
are diagnosed with metastatic disease and few show a sustained response to
chemotherapy or radiation therapy. Whether the dismal prognosis of patients with 
pancreatic cancer compared to patients with other types of cancer is a result of 
late diagnosis or early dissemination of disease to distant organs is not known. 
Here we rely on data generated by sequencing the genomes of seven pancreatic
cancer metastases to evaluate the clonal relationships among primary and
metastatic cancers. We find that clonal populations that give rise to distant
metastases are represented within the primary carcinoma, but these clones are
genetically evolved from the original parental, non-metastatic clone. Thus,
genetic heterogeneity of metastases reflects that within the primary carcinoma. A
quantitative analysis of the timing of the genetic evolution of pancreatic cancer
was performed, indicating at least a decade between the occurrence of the
initiating mutation and the birth of the parental, non-metastatic founder cell.
At least five more years are required for the acquisition of metastatic ability
and patients die an average of two years thereafter. These data provide novel
insights into the genetic features underlying pancreatic cancer progression and
define a broad time window of opportunity for early detection to prevent deaths
from metastatic disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09515 
PMCID: PMC3148940
PMID: 20981102  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):1109-13. doi: 10.1038/nature09460.

The patterns and dynamics of genomic instability in metastatic pancreatic cancer.

Campbell PJ(1), Yachida S, Mudie LJ, Stephens PJ, Pleasance ED, Stebbings LA,
Morsberger LA, Latimer C, McLaren S, Lin ML, McBride DJ, Varela I, Nik-Zainal SA,
Leroy C, Jia M, Menzies A, Butler AP, Teague JW, Griffin CA, Burton J, Swerdlow
H, Quail MA, Stratton MR, Iacobuzio-Donahue C, Futreal PA.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Genome Project, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton CB10 1SA, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):1053-5.

Pancreatic cancer is an aggressive malignancy with a five-year mortality of
97-98%, usually due to widespread metastatic disease. Previous studies indicate
that this disease has a complex genomic landscape, with frequent copy number
changes and point mutations, but genomic rearrangements have not been
characterized in detail. Despite the clinical importance of metastasis, there
remain fundamental questions about the clonal structures of metastatic tumours,
including phylogenetic relationships among metastases, the scale of ongoing
parallel evolution in metastatic and primary sites, and how the tumour
disseminates. Here we harness advances in DNA sequencing to annotate genomic
rearrangements in 13 patients with pancreatic cancer and explore clonal
relationships among metastases. We find that pancreatic cancer acquires
rearrangements indicative of telomere dysfunction and abnormal cell-cycle
control, namely dysregulated G1-to-S-phase transition with intact G2-M
checkpoint. These initiate amplification of cancer genes and occur predominantly 
in early cancer development rather than the later stages of the disease. Genomic 
instability frequently persists after cancer dissemination, resulting in ongoing,
parallel and even convergent evolution among different metastases. We find
evidence that there is genetic heterogeneity among metastasis-initiating cells,
that seeding metastasis may require driver mutations beyond those required for
primary tumours, and that phylogenetic trees across metastases show
organ-specific branches. These data attest to the richness of genetic variation
in cancer, brought about by the tandem forces of genomic instability and
evolutionary selection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09460 
PMCID: PMC3137369
PMID: 20981101  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):1104-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09510.

On-line, voluntary control of human temporal lobe neurons.

Cerf M(1), Thiruvengadam N, Mormann F, Kraskov A, Quiroga RQ, Koch C, Fried I.

Author information: 
(1)Computation and Neural Systems, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, 
California 91125, USA. moran@klab.caltech.edu

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2010 Dec;11(12):785.

Daily life continually confronts us with an exuberance of external, sensory
stimuli competing with a rich stream of internal deliberations, plans and
ruminations. The brain must select one or more of these for further processing.
How this competition is resolved across multiple sensory and cognitive regions is
not known; nor is it clear how internal thoughts and attention regulate this
competition. Recording from single neurons in patients implanted with
intracranial electrodes for clinical reasons, here we demonstrate that humans can
regulate the activity of their neurons in the medial temporal lobe (MTL) to alter
the outcome of the contest between external images and their internal
representation. Subjects looked at a hybrid superposition of two images
representing familiar individuals, landmarks, objects or animals and had to
enhance one image at the expense of the other, competing one. Simultaneously, the
spiking activity of their MTL neurons in different subregions and hemispheres was
decoded in real time to control the content of the hybrid. Subjects reliably
regulated, often on the first trial, the firing rate of their neurons, increasing
the rate of some while simultaneously decreasing the rate of others. They did so 
by focusing onto one image, which gradually became clearer on the computer screen
in front of their eyes, and thereby overriding sensory input. On the basis of the
firing of these MTL neurons, the dynamics of the competition between visual
images in the subject's mind was visualized on an external display.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09510 
PMCID: PMC3010923
PMID: 20981100  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):1099-103. doi: 10.1038/nature09525.

Fine-scale recombination rate differences between sexes, populations and
individuals.

Kong A(1), Thorleifsson G, Gudbjartsson DF, Masson G, Sigurdsson A, Jonasdottir
A, Walters GB, Jonasdottir A, Gylfason A, Kristinsson KT, Gudjonsson SA, Frigge
ML, Helgason A, Thorsteinsdottir U, Stefansson K.

Author information: 
(1)deCODE genetics, Sturlugata 8, 101 Reykjavík, Iceland. kong@decode.is

Meiotic recombinations contribute to genetic diversity by yielding new
combinations of alleles. Recently, high-resolution recombination maps were
inferred from high-density single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data using
linkage disequilibrium (LD) patterns that capture historical recombination
events. The use of these maps has been demonstrated by the identification of
recombination hotspots and associated motifs, and the discovery that the PRDM9
gene affects the proportion of recombinations occurring at hotspots. However,
these maps provide no information about individual or sex differences. Moreover, 
locus-specific demographic factors like natural selection can bias LD-based
estimates of recombination rate. Existing genetic maps based on family data avoid
these shortcomings, but their resolution is limited by relatively few meioses and
a low density of markers. Here we used genome-wide SNP data from 15,257
parent-offspring pairs to construct the first recombination maps based on
directly observed recombinations with a resolution that is effective down to 10
kilobases (kb). Comparing male and female maps reveals that about 15% of hotspots
in one sex are specific to that sex. Although male recombinations result in more 
shuffling of exons within genes, female recombinations generate more new
combinations of nearby genes. We discover novel associations between
recombination characteristics of individuals and variants in the PRDM9 gene and
we identify new recombination hotspots. Comparisons of our maps with two LD-based
maps inferred from data of HapMap populations of Utah residents with ancestry
from northern and western Europe (CEU) and Yoruba in Ibadan, Nigeria (YRI) reveal
population differences previously masked by noise and map differences at regions 
previously described as targets of natural selection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09525 
PMID: 20981099  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):1095-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09425.

Late middle Eocene epoch of Libya yields earliest known radiation of African
anthropoids.

Jaeger JJ(1), Beard KC, Chaimanee Y, Salem M, Benammi M, Hlal O, Coster P, Bilal 
AA, Duringer P, Schuster M, Valentin X, Marandat B, Marivaux L, Métais E, Hammuda
O, Brunet M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut International de Paléoprimatologie et Paléontologie humaine,
Évolution et Paléoenvironnements, CNRS UMR 6046, Université de Poitiers, 40
Avenue du Recteur Pineau, 86022 Poitiers, France.
jean-jacques.jaeger@univ-poitiers.fr

Reconstructing the early evolutionary history of anthropoid primates is hindered 
by a lack of consensus on both the timing and biogeography of anthropoid origins.
Some prefer an ancient (Cretaceous) origin for anthropoids in Africa or some
other Gondwanan landmass, whereas others advocate a more recent (early Cenozoic) 
origin for anthropoids in Asia, with subsequent dispersal of one or more early
anthropoid taxa to Africa. The oldest undoubted African anthropoid primates
described so far are three species of the parapithecid Biretia from the late
middle Eocene Bir El Ater locality of Algeria and the late Eocene BQ-2 site in
the Fayum region of northern Egypt. Here we report the discovery of the oldest
known diverse assemblage of African anthropoids from the late middle Eocene Dur
At-Talah escarpment in central Libya. The primate assemblage from Dur At-Talah
includes diminutive species pertaining to three higher-level anthropoid clades
(Afrotarsiidae, Parapithecidae and Oligopithecidae) as well as a small species of
the early strepsirhine primate Karanisia. The high taxonomic diversity of
anthropoids at Dur At-Talah indicates either a much longer interval of anthropoid
evolution in Africa than is currently documented in the fossil record or the
nearly synchronous colonization of Africa by multiple anthropoid clades at some
time during the middle Eocene epoch.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09425 
PMID: 20981098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):1091-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09507.

Deformation of the lowermost mantle from seismic anisotropy.

Nowacki A(1), Wookey J, Kendall JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol, Wills Memorial Building, 
Queen's Road, Bristol, BS8 1RJ, UK. andy.nowacki@bristol.ac.uk

The lowermost part of the Earth's mantle-known as D″-shows significant seismic
anisotropy, the variation of seismic wave speed with direction. This is probably 
due to deformation-induced alignment of MgSiO(3)-post-perovskite (ppv), which is 
believed to be the main mineral phase present in the region. If this is the case,
then previous measurements of D″ anisotropy, which are generally made in one
direction only, are insufficient to distinguish candidate mechanisms of slip in
ppv because the mineral is orthorhombic. Here we measure anisotropy in D″ beneath
North and Central America, where material from subducting oceanic slabs impinges 
on the core-mantle boundary, using shallow as well as deep earthquakes to
increase the azimuthal coverage in D″. We make more than 700 individual
measurements of shear wave splitting in D″ in three regions from two different
azimuths in each case. We show that the previously assumed case of vertical
transverse isotropy (where wave speed shows no azimuthal variation) is not
possible, and that more complicated mechanisms must be involved. We test the fit 
of different MgSiO(3)-ppv deformation mechanisms to our results and find that
shear on (001) is most consistent with observations and the expected shear above 
the core-mantle boundary beneath subduction zones. With new models of mantle
flow, or improved experimental determination of the dominant ppv slip systems,
this method will allow us to map deformation at the core-mantle boundary and link
processes in D″, such as plume initiation, to the rest of the mantle.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09507 
PMID: 20981097 


169. Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):1088-90. doi: 10.1038/nature09485.

The evolution of the marine phosphate reservoir.

Planavsky NJ(1), Rouxel OJ, Bekker A, Lalonde SV, Konhauser KO, Reinhard CT,
Lyons TW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of California, Riverside, California 
92521, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):1052-3.

Phosphorus is a biolimiting nutrient that has an important role in regulating the
burial of organic matter and the redox state of the ocean-atmosphere system. The 
ratio of phosphorus to iron in iron-oxide-rich sedimentary rocks can be used to
track dissolved phosphate concentrations if the dissolved silica concentration of
sea water is estimated. Here we present iron and phosphorus concentration ratios 
from distal hydrothermal sediments and iron formations through time to study the 
evolution of the marine phosphate reservoir. The data suggest that phosphate
concentrations have been relatively constant over the Phanerozoic eon, the past
542 million years (Myr) of Earth's history. In contrast, phosphate concentrations
seem to have been elevated in Precambrian oceans. Specifically, there is a peak
in phosphorus-to-iron ratios in Neoproterozoic iron formations dating from ∼750
to ∼635 Myr ago, indicating unusually high dissolved phosphate concentrations in 
the aftermath of widespread, low-latitude 'snowball Earth' glaciations. An
enhanced postglacial phosphate flux would have caused high rates of primary
productivity and organic carbon burial and a transition to more oxidizing
conditions in the ocean and atmosphere. The snowball Earth glaciations and
Neoproterozoic oxidation are both suggested as triggers for the evolution and
radiation of metazoans. We propose that these two factors are intimately linked; 
a glacially induced nutrient surplus could have led to an increase in atmospheric
oxygen, paving the way for the rise of metazoan life.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09485 
PMID: 20981096  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):1084-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09519.

Detecting excitation and magnetization of individual dopants in a semiconductor.

Khajetoorians AA(1), Chilian B, Wiebe J, Schuwalow S, Lechermann F, Wiesendanger 
R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Applied Physics, Hamburg University, Jungiusstrasse 11, D-20355
Hamburg, Germany.

An individual magnetic atom doped into a semiconductor is a promising building
block for bottom-up spintronic devices and quantum logic gates. Moreover, it
provides a perfect model system for the atomic-scale investigation of fundamental
effects such as magnetism in dilute magnetic semiconductors. However, dopants in 
semiconductors so far have not been studied by magnetically sensitive techniques 
with atomic resolution that correlate the atomic structure with the dopant's
magnetism. Here we show electrical excitation and read-out of a spin associated
with a single magnetic dopant in a semiconductor host. We use spin-resolved
scanning tunnelling spectroscopy to measure the spin excitations and the
magnetization curve of individual iron surface-dopants embedded within a
two-dimensional electron gas confined to an indium antimonide (110) surface. The 
dopants act like isolated quantum spins the states of which are governed by a
substantial magnetic anisotropy that forces the spin to lie in the surface plane.
This result is corroborated by our first principles calculations. The
demonstrated methodology opens new routes for the investigation of sample systems
that are more widely studied in the field of spintronics-that is, Mn in GaAs
(ref. 5), magnetic ions in semiconductor quantum dots, nitrogen-vacancy centres
in diamond and phosphorus spins in silicon.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09519 
PMID: 20981095 


171. Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):1081-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09466.

A two-solar-mass neutron star measured using Shapiro delay.

Demorest PB(1), Pennucci T, Ransom SM, Roberts MS, Hessels JW.

Author information: 
(1)National Radio Astronomy Observatory, 520 Edgemont Road, Charlottesville,
Virginia 22093, USA. pdemores@nrao.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):1057-8.

Neutron stars are composed of the densest form of matter known to exist in our
Universe, the composition and properties of which are still theoretically
uncertain. Measurements of the masses or radii of these objects can strongly
constrain the neutron star matter equation of state and rule out theoretical
models of their composition. The observed range of neutron star masses, however, 
has hitherto been too narrow to rule out many predictions of 'exotic'
non-nucleonic components. The Shapiro delay is a general-relativistic increase in
light travel time through the curved space-time near a massive body. For highly
inclined (nearly edge-on) binary millisecond radio pulsar systems, this effect
allows us to infer the masses of both the neutron star and its binary companion
to high precision. Here we present radio timing observations of the binary
millisecond pulsar J1614-2230 that show a strong Shapiro delay signature. We
calculate the pulsar mass to be (1.97 ± 0.04)M(⊙), which rules out almost all
currently proposed hyperon or boson condensate equations of state (M(⊙), solar
mass). Quark matter can support a star this massive only if the quarks are
strongly interacting and are therefore not 'free' quarks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09466 
PMID: 20981094 


172. Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):1074-80. doi: 10.1038/nature09487.

Homologue structure of the SLAC1 anion channel for closing stomata in leaves.

Chen YH(1), Hu L, Punta M, Bruni R, Hillerich B, Kloss B, Rost B, Love J,
Siegelbaum SA, Hendrickson WA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, Columbia University, New 
York, New York 10032, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):1058-9.

The plant SLAC1 anion channel controls turgor pressure in the aperture-defining
guard cells of plant stomata, thereby regulating the exchange of water vapour and
photosynthetic gases in response to environmental signals such as drought or high
levels of carbon dioxide. Here we determine the crystal structure of a bacterial 
homologue (Haemophilus influenzae) of SLAC1 at 1.20 Å resolution, and use
structure-inspired mutagenesis to analyse the conductance properties of SLAC1
channels. SLAC1 is a symmetrical trimer composed from quasi-symmetrical subunits,
each having ten transmembrane helices arranged from helical hairpin pairs to form
a central five-helix transmembrane pore that is gated by an extremely conserved
phenylalanine residue. Conformational features indicate a mechanism for control
of gating by kinase activation, and electrostatic features of the pore coupled
with electrophysiological characteristics indicate that selectivity among
different anions is largely a function of the energetic cost of ion dehydration.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09487 
PMCID: PMC3548404
PMID: 20981093  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):1061-73. doi: 10.1038/nature09534.

A map of human genome variation from population-scale sequencing.

1000 Genomes Project Consortium, Abecasis GR, Altshuler D, Auton A, Brooks LD,
Durbin RM, Gibbs RA, Hurles ME, McVean GA.

Collaborators: Altshuler D, Durbin RM, Abecasis GR, Bentley DR, Chakravarti A,
Clark AG, Collins FS, De La Vega FM, Donnelly P, Egholm M, Flicek P, Gabriel SB, 
Gibbs RA, Knoppers BM, Lander ES, Lehrach H, Mardis ER, McVean GA, Nickerson DA, 
Peltonen L, Schafer AJ, Sherry ST, Wang J, Wilson R, Gibbs RA, Deiros D, Metzker 
M, Muzny D, Reid J, Wheeler D, Wang J, Li J, Jian M, Li G, Li R, Liang H, Tian G,
Wang B, Wang J, Wang W, Yang H, Zhang X, Zheng H, Lander ES, Altshuler DL,
Ambrogio L, Bloom T, Cibulskis K, Fennell TJ, Gabriel SB, Jaffe DB, Shefler E,
Sougnez CL, Bentley DR, Gormley N, Humphray S, Kingsbury Z, Kokko-Gonzales P,
Stone J, McKernan KJ, Costa GL, Ichikawa JK, Lee CC, Sudbrak R, Lehrach H,
Borodina TA, Dahl A, Davydov AN, Marquardt P, Mertes F, Nietfeld W, Rosenstiel P,
Schreiber S, Soldatov AV, Timmermann B, Tolzmann M, Egholm M, Affourtit J,
Ashworth D, Attiya S, Bachorski M, Buglione E, Burke A, Caprio A, Celone C, Clark
S, Conners D, Desany B, Gu L, Guccione L, Kao K, Kebbler J, Knowlton J, Labrecque
M, McDade L, Mealmaker C, Minderman M, Nawrocki A, Niazi F, Pareja K, Ramenani R,
Riches D, Song W, Turcotte C, Wang S, Mardis ER, Wilson RK, Dooling D, Fulton L, 
Fulton R, Weinstock G, Durbin RM, Burton J, Carter DM, Churcher C, Coffey A, Cox 
A, Palotie A, Quail M, Skelly T, Stalker J, Swerdlow HP, Turner D, De Witte A,
Giles S, Gibbs RA, Wheeler D, Bainbridge M, Challis D, Sabo A, Yu F, Yu J, Wang
J, Fang X, Guo X, Li R, Li Y, Luo R, Tai S, Wu H, Zheng H, Zheng X, Zhou Y, Li G,
Wang J, Yang H, Marth GT, Garrison EP, Huang W, Indap A, Kural D, Lee WP, Leong
WF, Quinlan AR, Stewart C, Stromberg MP, Ward AN, Wu J, Lee C, Mills RE, Shi X,
Daly MJ, DePristo MA, Altshuler DL, Ball AD, Banks E, Bloom T, Browning BL,
Cibulskis K, Fennell TJ, Garimella KV, Grossman SR, Handsaker RE, Hanna M, Hartl 
C, Jaffe DB, Kernytsky AM, Korn JM, Li H, Maguire JR, McCarroll SA, McKenna A,
Nemesh JC, Philippakis AA, Poplin RE, Price A, Rivas MA, Sabeti PC, Schaffner SF,
Shefler E, Shlyakhter IA, Cooper DN, Ball EV, Mort M, Phillips AD, Stenson PD,
Sebat J, Makarov V, Ye K, Yoon SC, Bustamante CD, Clark AG, Boyko A, Degenhardt
J, Gravel S, Gutenkunst RN, Kaganovich M, Keinan A, Lacroute P, Ma X, Reynolds A,
Clarke L, Flicek P, Cunningham F, Herrero J, Keenen S, Kulesha E, Leinonen R,
McLaren WM, Radhakrishnan R, Smith RE, Zalunin V, Zheng-Bradley X, Korbel JO,
Stütz AM, Humphray S, Bauer M, Cheetham RK, Cox T, Eberle M, James T, Kahn S,
Murray L, Chakravarti A, Ye K, De La Vega FM, Fu Y, Hyland FC, Manning JM,
McLaughlin SF, Peckham HE, Sakarya O, Sun YA, Tsung EF, Batzer MA, Konkel MK,
Walker JA, Sudbrak R, Albrecht MW, Amstislavskiy VS, Herwig R, Parkhomchuk DV,
Sherry ST, Agarwala R, Khouri HM, Morgulis AO, Paschall JE, Phan LD,
Rotmistrovsky KE, Sanders RD, Shumway MF, Xiao C, McVean GA, Auton A, Iqbal Z,
Lunter G, Marchini JL, Moutsianas L, Myers S, Tumian A, Desany B, Knight J, Winer
R, Craig DW, Beckstrom-Sternberg SM, Christoforides A, Kurdoglu AA, Pearson JV,
Sinari SA, Tembe WD, Haussler D, Hinrichs AS, Katzman SJ, Kern A, Kuhn RM,
Przeworski M, Hernandez RD, Howie B, Kelley JL, Melton SC, Abecasis GR, Li Y,
Anderson P, Blackwell T, Chen W, Cookson WO, Ding J, Kang HM, Lathrop M, Liang L,
Moffatt MF, Scheet P, Sidore C, Snyder M, Zhan X, Zöllner S, Awadalla P, Casals
F, Idaghdour Y, Keebler J, Stone EA, Zilversmit M, Jorde L, Xing J, Eichler EE,
Aksay G, Alkan C, Hajirasouliha I, Hormozdiari F, Kidd JM, Sahinalp SC, Sudmant
PH, Mardis ER, Chen K, Chinwalla A, Ding L, Koboldt DC, McLellan MD, Dooling D,
Weinstock G, Wallis JW, Wendl MC, Zhang Q, Durbin RM, Albers CA, Ayub Q,
Balasubramaniam S, Barrett JC, Carter DM, Chen Y, Conrad DF, Danecek P,
Dermitzakis ET, Hu M, Huang N, Hurles ME, Jin H, Jostins L, Keane TM, Le SQ,
Lindsay S, Long Q, MacArthur DG, Montgomery SB, Parts L, Stalker J, Tyler-Smith
C, Walter K, Zhang Y, Gerstein MB, Snyder M, Abyzov A, Balasubramanian S,
Bjornson R, Du J, Grubert F, Habegger L, Haraksingh R, Jee J, Khurana E, Lam HY, 
Leng J, Mu XJ, Urban AE, Zhang Z, Li Y, Luo R, Marth GT, Garrison EP, Kural D,
Quinlan AR, Stewart C, Stromberg MP, Ward AN, Wu J, Lee C, Mills RE, Shi X,
McCarroll SA, Banks E, DePristo MA, Handsaker RE, Hartl C, Korn JM, Li H, Nemesh 
JC, Sebat J, Makarov V, Ye K, Yoon SC, Degenhardt J, Kaganovich M, Clarke L,
Smith RE, Zheng-Bradley X, Korbel JO, Humphray S, Cheetham RK, Eberle M, Kahn S, 
Murray L, Ye K, De La Vega FM, Fu Y, Peckham HE, Sun YA, Batzer MA, Konkel MK,
Walker JA, Xiao C, Iqbal Z, Desany B, Blackwell T, Snyder M, Xing J, Eichler EE, 
Aksay G, Alkan C, Hajirasouliha I, Hormozdiari F, Kidd JM, Chen K, Chinwalla A,
Ding L, McLellan MD, Wallis JW, Hurles ME, Conrad DF, Walter K, Zhang Y, Gerstein
MB, Snyder M, Abyzov A, Du J, Grubert F, Haraksingh R, Jee J, Khurana E, Lam HY, 
Leng J, Mu XJ, Urban AE, Zhang Z, Gibbs RA, Bainbridge M, Challis D, Coafra C,
Dinh H, Kovar C, Lee S, Muzny D, Nazareth L, Reid J, Sabo A, Yu F, Yu J, Marth
GT, Garrison EP, Indap A, Leong WF, Quinlan AR, Stewart C, Ward AN, Wu J,
Cibulskis K, Fennell TJ, Gabriel SB, Garimella KV, Hartl C, Shefler E, Sougnez
CL, Wilkinson J, Clark AG, Gravel S, Grubert F, Clarke L, Flicek P, Smith RE,
Zheng-Bradley X, Sherry ST, Khouri HM, Paschall JE, Shumway MF, Xiao C, McVean
GA, Katzman SJ, Abecasis GR, Mardis ER, Dooling D, Fulton L, Fulton R, Koboldt
DC, Durbin RM, Balasubramaniam S, Coffey A, Keane TM, MacArthur DG, Palotie A,
Scott C, Stalker J, Tyler-Smith C, Gerstein MB, Balasubramanian S, Chakravarti A,
Knoppers BM, Abecasis GR, Bustamante CD, Gharani N, Gibbs RA, Jorde L, Kaye JS,
Kent A, Li T, McGuire AL, McVean GA, Ossorio PN, Rotimi CN, Su Y, Toji LH,
Tyler-Smith C, Brooks LD, Felsenfeld AL, McEwen JE, Abdallah A, Juenger CR, Clemm
NC, Collins FS, Duncanson A, Green ED, Guyer MS, Peterson JL, Schafer AJ, Xue Y, 
Cartwright RA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):544. Xue, Yali [added]; Cartwright, Reed A [added];
Altshuler, David L [corrected to Altshuler, David]; Kebbel, Andrew [corrected to 
Keebler, Jonathan]; Koko-Gonzales, Paula [corrected to Kokko-Gonzales, Paula];
Nickerson, Debbie A [corrected to Nickerson, Debo.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):1050-1.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2010 Dec;11(12):814.

The 1000 Genomes Project aims to provide a deep characterization of human genome 
sequence variation as a foundation for investigating the relationship between
genotype and phenotype. Here we present results of the pilot phase of the
project, designed to develop and compare different strategies for genome-wide
sequencing with high-throughput platforms. We undertook three projects:
low-coverage whole-genome sequencing of 179 individuals from four populations;
high-coverage sequencing of two mother-father-child trios; and exon-targeted
sequencing of 697 individuals from seven populations. We describe the location,
allele frequency and local haplotype structure of approximately 15 million single
nucleotide polymorphisms, 1 million short insertions and deletions, and 20,000
structural variants, most of which were previously undescribed. We show that,
because we have catalogued the vast majority of common variation, over 95% of the
currently accessible variants found in any individual are present in this data
set. On average, each person is found to carry approximately 250 to 300
loss-of-function variants in annotated genes and 50 to 100 variants previously
implicated in inherited disorders. We demonstrate how these results can be used
to inform association and functional studies. From the two trios, we directly
estimate the rate of de novo germline base substitution mutations to be
approximately 10(-8) per base pair per generation. We explore the data with
regard to signatures of natural selection, and identify a marked reduction of
genetic variation in the neighbourhood of genes, due to selection at linked
sites. These methods and public data will support the next phase of human genetic
research.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09534 
PMCID: PMC3042601
PMID: 20981092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):E6-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09484.

Volatile accretion history of the Earth.

Wood BJ(1), Halliday AN, Rehkämper M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, Oxford University, Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3PR,
UK. berniew@earth.ox.ac.uk

Comment on
    Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1227-33.

It has long been thought that the Earth had a protracted and complex history of
volatile accretion and loss. Albarède paints a different picture, proposing that 
the Earth first formed as a dry planet which, like the Moon, was devoid of
volatile constituents. He suggests that the Earth's complement of volatile
elements was only established later, by the addition of a small veneer of
volatile-rich material at ∼100 Myr (here and elsewhere, ages are relative to the 
origin of the Solar System). Here we argue that the Earth's mass balance of
moderately volatile elements is inconsistent with Albarède's hypothesis but is
well explained by the standard model of accretion from partially
volatile-depleted material, accompanied by core formation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09484 
PMID: 20981045 


175. Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):1128-32. doi: 10.1038/nature09465. Epub 2010 Oct
17.

Maternal mRNA deadenylation and decay by the piRNA pathway in the early
Drosophila embryo.

Rouget C(1), Papin C, Boureux A, Meunier AC, Franco B, Robine N, Lai EC, Pelisson
A, Simonelig M.

Author information: 
(1)mRNA Regulation and Development, Institute of Human Genetics, CNRS UPR1142,
141 rue de la Cardonille, Cedex 5, 34396 Montpellier, France.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2010 Dec;11(12):820.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2010 Dec;11(12):816.

Piwi-associated RNAs (piRNAs), a specific class of 24- to 30-nucleotide-long RNAs
produced by the Piwi-type of Argonaute proteins, have a specific germline
function in repressing transposable elements. This repression is thought to
involve heterochromatin formation and transcriptional and post-transcriptional
silencing. The piRNA pathway has other essential functions in germline stem cell 
maintenance and in maintaining germline DNA integrity. Here we uncover an
unexpected function of the piRNA pathway in the decay of maternal messenger RNAs 
and in translational repression in the early embryo. A subset of maternal mRNAs
is degraded in the embryo at the maternal-to-zygotic transition. In Drosophila,
maternal mRNA degradation depends on the RNA-binding protein Smaug and the
deadenylase CCR4, as well as the zygotic expression of a microRNA cluster. Using 
mRNA encoding the embryonic posterior morphogen Nanos (Nos) as a paradigm to
study maternal mRNA decay, we found that CCR4-mediated deadenylation of nos
depends on components of the piRNA pathway including piRNAs complementary to a
specific region in the nos 3' untranslated region. Reduced deadenylation when
piRNA-induced regulation is impaired correlates with nos mRNA stabilization and
translational derepression in the embryo, resulting in head development defects. 
Aubergine, one of the Argonaute proteins in the piRNA pathway, is present in a
complex with Smaug, CCR4, nos mRNA and piRNAs that target the nos 3' untranslated
region, in the bulk of the embryo. We propose that piRNAs and their associated
proteins act together with Smaug to recruit the CCR4 deadenylation complex to
specific mRNAs, thus promoting their decay. Because the piRNAs involved in this
regulation are produced from transposable elements, this identifies a direct
developmental function for transposable elements in the regulation of gene
expression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09465 
PMCID: PMC4505748
PMID: 20953170  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):1123-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09473. Epub 2010 Sep 29.

Structural basis for semaphorin signalling through the plexin receptor.

Nogi T(1), Yasui N, Mihara E, Matsunaga Y, Noda M, Yamashita N, Toyofuku T,
Uchiyama S, Goshima Y, Kumanogoh A, Takagi J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Protein Synthesis and Expression, Institute for Protein
Research, Osaka University, 3-2 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.

Semaphorins and their receptor plexins constitute a pleiotropic cell-signalling
system that is used in a wide variety of biological processes, and both protein
families have been implicated in numerous human diseases. The binding of soluble 
or membrane-anchored semaphorins to the membrane-distal region of the plexin
ectodomain activates plexin's intrinsic GTPase-activating protein (GAP) at the
cytoplasmic region, ultimately modulating cellular adhesion behaviour. However,
the structural mechanism underlying the receptor activation remains largely
unknown. Here we report the crystal structures of the semaphorin 6A (Sema6A)
receptor-binding fragment and the plexin A2 (PlxnA2) ligand-binding fragment in
both their pre-signalling (that is, before binding) and signalling (after complex
formation) states. Before binding, the Sema6A ectodomain was in the expected
'face-to-face' homodimer arrangement, similar to that adopted by Sema3A and
Sema4D, whereas PlxnA2 was in an unexpected 'head-on' homodimer arrangement. In
contrast, the structure of the Sema6A-PlxnA2 signalling complex revealed a 2:2
heterotetramer in which the two PlxnA2 monomers dissociated from one another and 
docked onto the top face of the Sema6A homodimer using the same interface as the 
head-on homodimer, indicating that plexins undergo 'partner exchange'. Cell-based
activity measurements using mutant ligands/receptors confirmed that the Sema6A
face-to-face dimer arrangement is physiologically relevant and is maintained
throughout signalling events. Thus, homodimer-to-heterodimer transitions of
cell-surface plexin that result in a specific orientation of its molecular axis
relative to the membrane may constitute the structural mechanism by which the
ligand-binding 'signal' is transmitted to the cytoplasmic region, inducing GAP
domain rearrangements and activation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09473 
PMID: 20881961  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):1118-22. doi: 10.1038/nature09468. Epub 2010 Sep
26.

Structural basis of semaphorin-plexin signalling.

Janssen BJ(1), Robinson RA, Pérez-Brangulí F, Bell CH, Mitchell KJ, Siebold C,
Jones EY.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Structural Biology, Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics,
University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 7BN, UK.

Cell-cell signalling of semaphorin ligands through interaction with plexin
receptors is important for the homeostasis and morphogenesis of many tissues and 
is widely studied for its role in neural connectivity, cancer, cell migration and
immune responses. SEMA4D and Sema6A exemplify two diverse vertebrate,
membrane-spanning semaphorin classes (4 and 6) that are capable of direct
signalling through members of the two largest plexin classes, B and A,
respectively. In the absence of any structural information on the plexin
ectodomain or its interaction with semaphorins the extracellular specificity and 
mechanism controlling plexin signalling has remained unresolved. Here we present 
crystal structures of cognate complexes of the semaphorin-binding regions of
plexins B1 and A2 with semaphorin ectodomains (human PLXNB1(1-2)-SEMA4D(ecto) and
murine PlxnA2(1-4)-Sema6A(ecto)), plus unliganded structures of PlxnA2(1-4) and
Sema6A(ecto). These structures, together with biophysical and cellular assays of 
wild-type and mutant proteins, reveal that semaphorin dimers independently bind
two plexin molecules and that signalling is critically dependent on the avidity
of the resulting bivalent 2:2 complex (monomeric semaphorin binds plexin but
fails to trigger signalling). In combination, our data favour a cell-cell
signalling mechanism involving semaphorin-stabilized plexin dimerization,
possibly followed by clustering, which is consistent with previous functional
data. Furthermore, the shared generic architecture of the complexes, formed
through conserved contacts of the amino-terminal seven-bladed β-propeller (sema) 
domains of both semaphorin and plexin, suggests that a common mode of interaction
triggers all semaphorin-plexin based signalling, while distinct insertions within
or between blades of the sema domains determine binding specificity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09468 
PMCID: PMC3587840
PMID: 20877282  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Nature. 2010 Oct 21;467(7318):986-90. doi: 10.1038/nature09459.

TAp63 suppresses metastasis through coordinate regulation of Dicer and miRNAs.

Su X(1), Chakravarti D, Cho MS, Liu L, Gi YJ, Lin YL, Leung ML, El-Naggar A,
Creighton CJ, Suraokar MB, Wistuba I, Flores ER.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Oncology, The University of Texas M. D.
Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Aberrant expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) and the enzymes that control their
processing have been reported in multiple biological processes including primary 
and metastatic tumours, but the mechanisms governing this are not clearly
understood. Here we show that TAp63, a p53 family member, suppresses
tumorigenesis and metastasis, and coordinately regulates Dicer and miR-130b to
suppress metastasis. Metastatic mouse and human tumours deficient in TAp63
express Dicer at very low levels, and we found that modulation of expression of
Dicer and miR-130b markedly affected the metastatic potential of cells lacking
TAp63. TAp63 binds to and transactivates the Dicer promoter, demonstrating direct
transcriptional regulation of Dicer by TAp63. These data provide a novel
understanding of the roles of TAp63 in tumour and metastasis suppression through 
the coordinate transcriptional regulation of Dicer and miR-130b and may have
implications for the many processes regulated by miRNAs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09459 
PMCID: PMC3055799
PMID: 20962848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Nature. 2010 Oct 21;467(7318):977-81. doi: 10.1038/nature09457.

Maternal Rnf12/RLIM is required for imprinted X-chromosome inactivation in mice.

Shin J(1), Bossenz M, Chung Y, Ma H, Byron M, Taniguchi-Ishigaki N, Zhu X, Jiao
B, Hall LL, Green MR, Jones SN, Hermans-Borgmeyer I, Lawrence JB, Bach I.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Gene Function and Expression, University of Massachusetts Medical
School (UMMS), Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA.

Two forms of X-chromosome inactivation (XCI) ensure the selective silencing of
female sex chromosomes during mouse embryogenesis. Imprinted XCI begins with the 
detection of Xist RNA expression on the paternal X chromosome (Xp) at about the
four-cell stage of embryonic development. In the embryonic tissues of the inner
cell mass, a random form of XCI occurs in blastocysts that inactivates either Xp 
or the maternal X chromosome (Xm). Both forms of XCI require the non-coding Xist 
RNA that coats the inactive X chromosome from which it is expressed. Xist has
crucial functions in the silencing of X-linked genes, including Rnf12 (refs 3, 4)
encoding the ubiquitin ligase RLIM (RING finger LIM-domain-interacting protein). 
Here we show, by targeting a conditional knockout of Rnf12 to oocytes where RLIM 
accumulates to high levels, that the maternal transmission of the mutant
X chromosome (Δm) leads to lethality in female embryos as a result of defective
imprinted XCI. We provide evidence that in Δm female embryos the initial
formation of Xist clouds and Xp silencing are inhibited. In contrast, embryonic
stem cells lacking RLIM are able to form Xist clouds and silence at least some
X-linked genes during random XCI. These results assign crucial functions to the
maternal deposit of Rnf12/RLIM for the initiation of imprinted XCI.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09457 
PMCID: PMC2967734
PMID: 20962847  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Nature. 2010 Oct 21;467(7318):967-71. doi: 10.1038/nature09447.

Generation of pathogenic T(H)17 cells in the absence of TGF-β signalling.

Ghoreschi K(1), Laurence A, Yang XP, Tato CM, McGeachy MJ, Konkel JE, Ramos HL,
Wei L, Davidson TS, Bouladoux N, Grainger JR, Chen Q, Kanno Y, Watford WT, Sun
HW, Eberl G, Shevach EM, Belkaid Y, Cua DJ, Chen W, O'Shea JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Immunology and Inflammation Branch, National Institute of Arthritis,
Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892, USA. ghoreschik@mail.nih.gov

Comment in
    Expert Rev Clin Immunol. 2011 May;7(3):283-5.

CD4(+) T-helper cells that selectively produce interleukin (IL)-17 (T(H)17), are 
critical for host defence and autoimmunity. Although crucial for T(H)17 cells in 
vivo, IL-23 has been thought to be incapable of driving initial differentiation. 
Rather, IL-6 and transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1 have been proposed to be the
factors responsible for initiating specification. Here we show that T(H)17
differentiation can occur in the absence of TGF-β signalling. Neither IL-6 nor
IL-23 alone efficiently generated T(H)17 cells; however, these cytokines in
combination with IL-1β effectively induced IL-17 production in naive precursors, 
independently of TGF-β. Epigenetic modification of the Il17a, Il17f and Rorc
promoters proceeded without TGF-β1, allowing the generation of cells that
co-expressed RORγt (encoded by Rorc) and T-bet. T-bet(+)RORγt(+) T(H)17 cells are
generated in vivo during experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, and adoptively 
transferred T(H)17 cells generated with IL-23 without TGF-β1 were pathogenic in
this disease model. These data indicate an alternative mode for T(H)17
differentiation. Consistent with genetic data linking IL23R with autoimmunity,
our findings re-emphasize the importance of IL-23 and therefore may have
therapeutic implications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09447 
PMCID: PMC3108066
PMID: 20962846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Nature. 2010 Oct 21;467(7318):963-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09491.

Chronic high-fat diet in fathers programs β-cell dysfunction in female rat
offspring.

Ng SF(1), Lin RC, Laybutt DR, Barres R, Owens JA, Morris MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medical Sciences, University of New
South Wales, New South Wales, Sydney 2052, Australia.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2011 Feb 2;13(2):115-7.
    Nature. 2010 Oct 21;467(7318):922-3.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Feb;12(2):80.

The global prevalence of obesity is increasing across most ages in both sexes.
This is contributing to the early emergence of type 2 diabetes and its related
epidemic. Having either parent obese is an independent risk factor for childhood 
obesity. Although the detrimental impacts of diet-induced maternal obesity on
adiposity and metabolism in offspring are well established, the extent of any
contribution of obese fathers is unclear, particularly the role of non-genetic
factors in the causal pathway. Here we show that paternal high-fat-diet (HFD)
exposure programs β-cell 'dysfunction' in rat F(1) female offspring. Chronic HFD 
consumption in Sprague-Dawley fathers induced increased body weight, adiposity,
impaired glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity. Relative to controls, their
female offspring had an early onset of impaired insulin secretion and glucose
tolerance that worsened with time, and normal adiposity. Paternal HFD altered the
expression of 642 pancreatic islet genes in adult female offspring (P < 0.01);
genes belonged to 13 functional clusters, including cation and ATP binding,
cytoskeleton and intracellular transport. Broader pathway analysis of 2,492 genes
differentially expressed (P < 0.05) demonstrated involvement of calcium-, MAPK-
and Wnt-signalling pathways, apoptosis and the cell cycle. Hypomethylation of the
Il13ra2 gene, which showed the highest fold difference in expression (1.76-fold
increase), was demonstrated. This is the first report in mammals of non-genetic, 
intergenerational transmission of metabolic sequelae of a HFD from father to
offspring.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09491 
PMID: 20962845  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Nature. 2010 Oct 21;467(7318):959-62. doi: 10.1038/nature09439.

Demographic compensation and tipping points in climate-induced range shifts.

Doak DF(1), Morris WF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology and Physiology, University of Wyoming, Laramie, Wyoming 
82071, USA. ddoak@uwyo.edu

To persist, species are expected to shift their geographical ranges polewards or 
to higher elevations as the Earth's climate warms. However, although many
species' ranges have shifted in historical times, many others have not, or have
shifted only at the high-latitude or high-elevation limits, leading to range
expansions rather than contractions. Given these idiosyncratic responses to
climate warming, and their varied implications for species' vulnerability to
climate change, a critical task is to understand why some species have not
shifted their ranges, particularly at the equatorial or low-elevation limits, and
whether such resilience will last as warming continues. Here we show that
compensatory changes in demographic rates are buffering southern populations of
two North American tundra plants against the negative effects of a warming
climate, slowing their northward range shifts, but that this buffering is
unlikely to continue indefinitely. Southern populations of both species showed
lower survival and recruitment but higher growth of individual plants, possibly
owing to longer, warmer growing seasons. Because of these and other compensatory 
changes, the population growth rates of southern populations are not at present
lower than those of northern ones. However, continued warming may yet prove
detrimental, as most demographic rates that improved in moderately warmer years
declined in the warmest years, with the potential to drive future population
declines. Our results emphasize the need for long-term, range-wide measurement of
all population processes to detect demographic compensation and to identify
nonlinear responses that may lead to sudden range shifts as climatic tipping
points are exceeded.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09439 
PMID: 20962844  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Nature. 2010 Oct 21;467(7318):955-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09441.

Continental warming preceding the Palaeocene-Eocene thermal maximum.

Secord R(1), Gingerich PD, Lohmann KC, Macleod KG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, University of Nebraska, Lincoln,
Nebraska 68588, USA. rsecord2@unl.edu

Marine and continental records show an abrupt negative shift in carbon isotope
values at ∼55.8 Myr ago. This carbon isotope excursion (CIE) is consistent with
the release of a massive amount of isotopically light carbon into the atmosphere 
and was associated with a dramatic rise in global temperatures termed the
Palaeocene-Eocene thermal maximum (PETM). Greenhouse gases released during the
CIE, probably including methane, have often been considered the main cause of
PETM warming. However, some evidence from the marine record suggests that warming
directly preceded the CIE, raising the possibility that the CIE and PETM may have
been linked to earlier warming with different origins. Yet pre-CIE warming is
still uncertain. Disentangling the sequence of events before and during the CIE
and PETM is important for understanding the causes of, and Earth system responses
to, abrupt climate change. Here we show that continental warming of about 5 °C
preceded the CIE in the Bighorn Basin, Wyoming. Our evidence, based on oxygen
isotopes in mammal teeth (which reflect temperature-sensitive fractionation
processes) and other proxies, reveals a marked temperature increase directly
below the CIE, and again in the CIE. Pre-CIE warming is also supported by a
negative amplification of δ(13)C values in soil carbonates below the CIE. Our
results suggest that at least two sources of warming-the earlier of which is
unlikely to have been methane-contributed to the PETM.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09441 
PMID: 20962843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Nature. 2010 Oct 21;467(7318):947-50. doi: 10.1038/nature09427.

Nonlinear electrophoresis of dielectric and metal spheres in a nematic liquid
crystal.

Lavrentovich OD(1), Lazo I, Pishnyak OP.

Author information: 
(1)Liquid Crystal Institute and Chemical Physics Interdisciplinary Program, Kent 
State University, Kent, Ohio 44242, USA. olavrent@kent.edu

Electrophoresis is a motion of charged dispersed particles relative to a fluid in
a uniform electric field. The effect is widely used to separate macromolecules,
to assemble colloidal structures and to transport particles in nano- and
microfluidic devices and displays. Typically, the fluid is isotropic (for
example, water) and the electrophoretic velocity is linearly proportional to the 
electric field. In linear electrophoresis, only a direct-current (d.c.) field can
drive the particles. An alternating-current (a.c.) field is more desirable
because it makes it possible to overcome problems such as electrolysis and the
absence of steady flows. Here we show that when the electrophoresis is performed 
in a liquid-crystalline nematic fluid, the effect becomes strongly nonlinear,
with a velocity component that is quadratic in the applied voltage and has a
direction that generally differs from the direction of linear velocity. The new
phenomenon is caused by distortions of the liquid-crystal orientation around the 
particle that break the fore-aft (or left-right) symmetry. The effect makes it
possible to transport both charged and neutral particles, even when the particles
themselves are perfectly symmetric (spherical), thus allowing new approaches in
display technologies, colloidal assembly and separation, microfluidic and
micromotor applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09427 
PMID: 20962842 


185. Nature. 2010 Oct 21;467(7318):943-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09467.

Scattering by chorus waves as the dominant cause of diffuse auroral
precipitation.

Thorne RM(1), Ni B, Tao X, Horne RB, Meredith NP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences, University of California, Los 
Angeles, 405 Hilgard Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90095-1565, USA.
rmt@atmos.ucla.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Oct 21;467(7318):927-8.

Earth's diffuse aurora occurs over a broad latitude range and is primarily caused
by the precipitation of low-energy (0.1-30-keV) electrons originating in the
central plasma sheet, which is the source region for hot electrons in the
nightside outer magnetosphere. Although generally not visible, the diffuse
auroral precipitation provides the main source of energy for the high-latitude
nightside upper atmosphere, leading to enhanced ionization and chemical changes. 
Previous theoretical studies have indicated that two distinct classes of
magnetospheric plasma wave, electrostatic electron cyclotron harmonic waves and
whistler-mode chorus waves, could be responsible for the electron scattering that
leads to diffuse auroral precipitation, but it has hitherto not been possible to 
determine which is the more important. Here we report an analysis of satellite
wave data and Fokker-Planck diffusion calculations which reveals that scattering 
by chorus is the dominant cause of the most intense diffuse auroral
precipitation. This resolves a long-standing controversy. Furthermore, scattering
by chorus can remove most electrons as they drift around Earth's magnetosphere,
leading to the development of observed pancake distributions, and can account for
the global morphology of the diffuse aurora.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09467 
PMID: 20962841 


186. Nature. 2010 Oct 21;467(7318):940-2. doi: 10.1038/nature09462.

Spectroscopic confirmation of a galaxy at redshift z = 8.6.

Lehnert MD(1), Nesvadba NP, Cuby JG, Swinbank AM, Morris S, Clément B, Evans CJ, 
Bremer MN, Basa S.

Author information: 
(1)GEPI, Observatoire de Paris, CNRS, Université Paris Diderot, 5 Place Jules
Janssen, 92190 Meudon, France. matthew.lehnert@obspm.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Oct 21;467(7318):924-5.

Galaxies had their most significant impact on the Universe when they assembled
their first generations of stars. Energetic photons emitted by young, massive
stars in primeval galaxies ionized the intergalactic medium surrounding their
host galaxies, cleared sightlines along which the light of the young galaxies
could escape, and fundamentally altered the physical state of the intergalactic
gas in the Universe continuously until the present day. Observations of the
cosmic microwave background, and of galaxies and quasars at the highest
redshifts, suggest that the Universe was reionized through a complex process that
was completed about a billion years after the Big Bang, by redshift z ≈ 6.
Detecting ionizing Lyman-α photons from increasingly distant galaxies places
important constraints on the timing, location and nature of the sources
responsible for reionization. Here we report the detection of Lyα photons emitted
less than 600 million years after the Big Bang. UDFy-38135539 (ref. 5) is at a
redshift of z = 8.5549 ± 0.0002, which is greater than those of the previously
known most distant objects, at z = 8.2 (refs 6 and 7) and z = 6.96 (ref. 8). We
find that this single source is unlikely to provide enough photons to ionize the 
volume necessary for the emission line to escape, requiring a significant
contribution from other, probably fainter galaxies nearby.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09462 
PMID: 20962840 


187. Nature. 2010 Oct 21;467(7318):929-34. doi: 10.1038/nature09486.

The energetics of genome complexity.

Lane N(1), Martin W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Evolution and Environment, University College London, 
Gower Street, London W1E 6BT, UK. nick.lane@ucl.ac.uk

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Feb 9;113(6):E667-8.
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Feb 9;113(6):E666.

All complex life is composed of eukaryotic (nucleated) cells. The eukaryotic cell
arose from prokaryotes just once in four billion years, and otherwise prokaryotes
show no tendency to evolve greater complexity. Why not? Prokaryotic genome size
is constrained by bioenergetics. The endosymbiosis that gave rise to mitochondria
restructured the distribution of DNA in relation to bioenergetic membranes,
permitting a remarkable 200,000-fold expansion in the number of genes expressed. 
This vast leap in genomic capacity was strictly dependent on mitochondrial power,
and prerequisite to eukaryote complexity: the key innovation en route to
multicellular life.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09486 
PMID: 20962839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Nature. 2010 Oct 21;467(7318):982-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09469. Epub 2010 Oct 13.

Satellite phage TLCφ enables toxigenic conversion by CTX phage through dif site
alteration.

Hassan F(1), Kamruzzaman M, Mekalanos JJ, Faruque SM.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Genetics Laboratory, International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease
Research, Bangladesh, Dhaka-1212, Bangladesh.

Bacterial chromosomes often carry integrated genetic elements (for example
plasmids, transposons, prophages and islands) whose precise function and
contribution to the evolutionary fitness of the host bacterium are unknown. The
CTXφ prophage, which encodes cholera toxin in Vibrio cholerae, is known to be
adjacent to a chromosomally integrated element of unknown function termed the
toxin-linked cryptic (TLC). Here we report the characterization of a TLC-related 
element that corresponds to the genome of a satellite filamentous phage
(TLC-Knφ1), which uses the morphogenesis genes of another filamentous phage
(fs2φ) to form infectious TLC-Knφ1 phage particles. The TLC-Knφ1 phage genome
carries a sequence similar to the dif recombination sequence, which functions in 
chromosome dimer resolution using XerC and XerD recombinases. The dif sequence is
also exploited by lysogenic filamentous phages (for example CTXφ) for chromosomal
integration of their genomes. Bacterial cells defective in the dimer resolution
often show an aberrant filamentous cell morphology. We found that acquisition and
chromosomal integration of the TLC-Knφ1 genome restored a perfect dif site and
normal morphology to V. cholerae wild-type and mutant strains with dif(-)
filamentation phenotypes. Furthermore, lysogeny of a dif(-) non-toxigenic
V. cholerae with TLC-Knφ1 promoted its subsequent toxigenic conversion through
integration of CTXφ into the restored dif site. These results reveal a remarkable
level of cooperative interactions between multiple filamentous phages in the
emergence of the bacterial pathogen that causes cholera.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09469 
PMCID: PMC2967718
PMID: 20944629  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Nature. 2010 Oct 21;467(7318):935-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09422. Epub 2010 Oct 13.

Single-molecule analysis of Mss116-mediated group II intron folding.

Karunatilaka KS(1), Solem A, Pyle AM, Rueda D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Wayne State University, 5101 Cass Avenue, Detroit,
Michigan 48202, USA.

DEAD-box helicases are conserved enzymes involved in nearly all aspects of RNA
metabolism, but their mechanisms of action remain unclear. Here, we investigated 
the mechanism of the DEAD-box protein Mss116 on its natural substrate, the group 
II intron ai5γ. Group II introns are structurally complex catalytic RNAs
considered evolutionarily related to the eukaryotic spliceosome, and an
interesting paradigm for large RNA folding. We used single-molecule fluorescence 
to monitor the effect of Mss116 on folding dynamics of a minimal active
construct, ai5γ-D135. The data show that Mss116 stimulates dynamic sampling
between states along the folding pathway, an effect previously observed only with
high Mg(2+) concentrations. Furthermore, the data indicate that Mss116 promotes
folding through discrete ATP-independent and ATP-dependent steps. We propose that
Mss116 stimulates group II intron folding through a multi-step process that
involves electrostatic stabilization of early intermediates and ATP hydrolysis
during the final stages of native state assembly.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09422 
PMCID: PMC4484588
PMID: 20944626  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Nature. 2010 Oct 21;467(7318):951-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09396.

Recent decline in the global land evapotranspiration trend due to limited
moisture supply.

Jung M(1), Reichstein M, Ciais P, Seneviratne SI, Sheffield J, Goulden ML, Bonan 
G, Cescatti A, Chen J, de Jeu R, Dolman AJ, Eugster W, Gerten D, Gianelle D,
Gobron N, Heinke J, Kimball J, Law BE, Montagnani L, Mu Q, Mueller B, Oleson K,
Papale D, Richardson AD, Roupsard O, Running S, Tomelleri E, Viovy N, Weber U,
Williams C, Wood E, Zaehle S, Zhang K.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Biogeochemistry, 07745 Jena, Germany.
mjung@bgc-jena.mpg.de

More than half of the solar energy absorbed by land surfaces is currently used to
evaporate water. Climate change is expected to intensify the hydrological cycle
and to alter evapotranspiration, with implications for ecosystem services and
feedback to regional and global climate. Evapotranspiration changes may already
be under way, but direct observational constraints are lacking at the global
scale. Until such evidence is available, changes in the water cycle on land−a key
diagnostic criterion of the effects of climate change and variability−remain
uncertain. Here we provide a data-driven estimate of global land
evapotranspiration from 1982 to 2008, compiled using a global monitoring network,
meteorological and remote-sensing observations, and a machine-learning algorithm.
In addition, we have assessed evapotranspiration variations over the same time
period using an ensemble of process-based land-surface models. Our results
suggest that global annual evapotranspiration increased on average by
7.1 ± 1.0 millimetres per year per decade from 1982 to 1997. After that,
coincident with the last major El Niño event in 1998, the global
evapotranspiration increase seems to have ceased until 2008. This change was
driven primarily by moisture limitation in the Southern Hemisphere, particularly 
Africa and Australia. In these regions, microwave satellite observations indicate
that soil moisture decreased from 1998 to 2008. Hence, increasing soil-moisture
limitations on evapotranspiration largely explain the recent decline of the
global land-evapotranspiration trend. Whether the changing behaviour of
evapotranspiration is representative of natural climate variability or reflects a
more permanent reorganization of the land water cycle is a key question for earth
system science.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09396 
PMID: 20935626  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Nature. 2010 Oct 21;467(7318):972-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09421. Epub 2010 Oct 3.

Oxidative stress induces angiogenesis by activating TLR2 with novel endogenous
ligands.

West XZ(1), Malinin NL, Merkulova AA, Tischenko M, Kerr BA, Borden EC, Podrez EA,
Salomon RG, Byzova TV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Cardiology, J. J. Jacobs Center for Thrombosis and
Vascular Biology, NB50, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, 9500 Euclid Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44195, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2010 Nov;10(11):748.

Reciprocity of inflammation, oxidative stress and neovascularization is emerging 
as an important mechanism underlying numerous processes from tissue healing and
remodelling to cancer progression. Whereas the mechanism of hypoxia-driven
angiogenesis is well understood, the link between inflammation-induced oxidation 
and de novo blood vessel growth remains obscure. Here we show that the end
products of lipid oxidation, ω-(2-carboxyethyl)pyrrole (CEP) and other related
pyrroles, are generated during inflammation and wound healing and accumulate at
high levels in ageing tissues in mice and in highly vascularized tumours in both 
murine and human melanoma. The molecular patterns of carboxyalkylpyrroles are
recognized by Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2), but not TLR4 or scavenger receptors on
endothelial cells, leading to an angiogenic response that is independent of
vascular endothelial growth factor. CEP promoted angiogenesis in hindlimb
ischaemia and wound healing models through MyD88-dependent TLR2 signalling.
Neutralization of endogenous carboxyalkylpyrroles impaired wound healing and
tissue revascularization and diminished tumour angiogenesis. Both TLR2 and MyD88 
are required for CEP-induced stimulation of Rac1 and endothelial migration. Taken
together, these findings establish a new function of TLR2 as a sensor of
oxidation-associated molecular patterns, providing a key link connecting
inflammation, oxidative stress, innate immunity and angiogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09421 
PMCID: PMC2990914
PMID: 20927103  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Nature. 2010 Oct 21;467(7318):991-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09408. Epub 2010 Sep 22.

Structure of a cation-bound multidrug and toxic compound extrusion transporter.

He X(1), Szewczyk P, Karyakin A, Evin M, Hong WX, Zhang Q, Chang G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, 10550 North
Torrey Pines Road, CB105, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Oct 21;467(7318):926-7.

Transporter proteins from the MATE (multidrug and toxic compound extrusion)
family are vital in metabolite transport in plants, directly affecting crop
yields worldwide. MATE transporters also mediate multiple-drug resistance (MDR)
in bacteria and mammals, modulating the efficacy of many pharmaceutical drugs
used in the treatment of a variety of diseases. MATE transporters couple
substrate transport to electrochemical gradients and are the only remaining class
of MDR transporters whose structure has not been determined. Here we report the
X-ray structure of the MATE transporter NorM from Vibrio cholerae determined to
3.65 Å, revealing an outward-facing conformation with two portals open to the
outer leaflet of the membrane and a unique topology of the predicted 12
transmembrane helices distinct from any other known MDR transporter. We also
report a cation-binding site in close proximity to residues previously deemed
critical for transport. This conformation probably represents a stage of the
transport cycle with high affinity for monovalent cations and low affinity for
substrates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09408 
PMCID: PMC3152480
PMID: 20861838  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):868-71. doi: 10.1038/nature09444.

The proteasome antechamber maintains substrates in an unfolded state.

Ruschak AM(1), Religa TL, Breuer S, Witt S, Kay LE.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Molecular Genetics, Biochemistry and Chemistry, The University 
of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada.

Eukaryotes and archaea use a protease called the proteasome that has an integral 
role in maintaining cellular function through the selective degradation of
proteins. Proteolysis occurs in a barrel-shaped 20S core particle, which in
Thermoplasma acidophilum is built from four stacked homoheptameric rings of
subunits, α and β, arranged α(7)β(7)β(7)α(7) (ref. 5). These rings form three
interconnected cavities, including a pair of antechambers (formed by α(7)β(7))
through which substrates are passed before degradation and a catalytic chamber
(β(7)β(7)) where the peptide-bond hydrolysis reaction occurs. Although it is
clear that substrates must be unfolded to enter through narrow, gated passageways
(13 Å in diameter) located on the α-rings, the structural and dynamical
properties of substrates inside the proteasome antechamber remain unclear.
Confinement in the antechamber might be expected to promote folding and thus
impede proteolysis. Here we investigate the folding, stability and dynamics of
three small protein substrates in the antechamber by methyl
transverse-relaxation-optimized NMR spectroscopy. We show that these substrates
interact actively with the antechamber walls and have drastically altered kinetic
and equilibrium properties that maintain them in unstructured states so as to be 
accessible for hydrolysis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09444 
PMID: 20944750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):863-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09413.

Pannexin 1 channels mediate 'find-me' signal release and membrane permeability
during apoptosis.

Chekeni FB(1), Elliott MR, Sandilos JK, Walk SF, Kinchen JM, Lazarowski ER,
Armstrong AJ, Penuela S, Laird DW, Salvesen GS, Isakson BE, Bayliss DA,
Ravichandran KS.

Author information: 
(1)Beirne B. Carter Center for Immunology Research, University of Virginia,
Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA.

Apoptotic cells release 'find-me' signals at the earliest stages of death to
recruit phagocytes. The nucleotides ATP and UTP represent one class of find-me
signals, but their mechanism of release is not known. Here, we identify the
plasma membrane channel pannexin 1 (PANX1) as a mediator of find-me
signal/nucleotide release from apoptotic cells. Pharmacological inhibition and
siRNA-mediated knockdown of PANX1 led to decreased nucleotide release and
monocyte recruitment by apoptotic cells. Conversely, PANX1 overexpression
enhanced nucleotide release from apoptotic cells and phagocyte recruitment.
Patch-clamp recordings showed that PANX1 was basally inactive, and that induction
of PANX1 currents occurred only during apoptosis. Mechanistically, PANX1 itself
was a target of effector caspases (caspases 3 and 7), and a specific
caspase-cleavage site within PANX1 was essential for PANX1 function during
apoptosis. Expression of truncated PANX1 (at the putative caspase cleavage site) 
resulted in a constitutively open channel. PANX1 was also important for the
'selective' plasma membrane permeability of early apoptotic cells to specific
dyes. Collectively, these data identify PANX1 as a plasma membrane channel
mediating the regulated release of find-me signals and selective plasma membrane 
permeability during apoptosis, and a new mechanism of PANX1 activation by
caspases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09413 
PMCID: PMC3006164
PMID: 20944749  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):859-62. doi: 10.1038/nature09420.

Non-muscle myosin IIA is a functional entry receptor for herpes simplex virus-1.

Arii J(1), Goto H, Suenaga T, Oyama M, Kozuka-Hata H, Imai T, Minowa A, Akashi H,
Arase H, Kawaoka Y, Kawaguchi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Viral Infection, Department of Infectious Disease Control,
International Research Center for Infectious Diseases, The Institute of Medical
Science, The University of Tokyo, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8639, Japan.

Herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV-1), the prototype of the α-herpesvirus family, causes
life-long infections in humans. Although generally associated with various
mucocutaneous diseases, HSV-1 is also involved in lethal encephalitis. HSV-1
entry into host cells requires cellular receptors for both envelope glycoproteins
B (gB) and D (gD). However, the gB receptors responsible for its broad host range
in vitro and infection of critical targets in vivo remain unknown. Here we show
that non-muscle myosin heavy chain IIA (NMHC-IIA), a subunit of non-muscle myosin
IIA (NM-IIA), functions as an HSV-1 entry receptor by interacting with gB. A cell
line that is relatively resistant to HSV-1 infection became highly susceptible to
infection by this virus when NMHC-IIA was overexpressed. Antibody to NMHC-IIA
blocked HSV-1 infection in naturally permissive target cells. Furthermore,
knockdown of NMHC-IIA in the permissive cells inhibited HSV-1 infection as well
as cell-cell fusion when gB, gD, gH and gL were coexpressed. Cell-surface
expression of NMHC-IIA was markedly and rapidly induced during the initiation of 
HSV-1 entry. A specific inhibitor of myosin light chain kinase, which regulates
NM-IIA by phosphorylation, reduced the redistribution of NMHC-IIA as well as
HSV-1 infection in cell culture and in a murine model for herpes stromal
keratitis. NMHC-IIA is ubiquitously expressed in various human tissues and cell
types and, therefore, is implicated as a functional gB receptor that mediates
broad HSV-1 infectivity both in vitro and in vivo. The identification of NMHC-IIA
as an HSV-1 entry receptor and the involvement of NM-IIA regulation in HSV-1
infection provide an insight into HSV-1 entry and identify new targets for
antiviral drug development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09420 
PMID: 20944748  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):854-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09446.

Anthrax toxins cooperatively inhibit endocytic recycling by the Rab11/Sec15
exocyst.

Guichard A(1), McGillivray SM, Cruz-Moreno B, van Sorge NM, Nizet V, Bier E.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Cell and Developmental Biology, University of California, San
Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California 92093-0349, USA.

Comment in
    Dev Cell. 2010 Nov 16;19(5):643-4.

Bacillus anthracis is the causative agent of anthrax in humans and other mammals.
In lethal systemic anthrax, proliferating bacilli secrete large quantities of the
toxins lethal factor (LF) and oedema factor (EF), leading to widespread vascular 
leakage and shock. Whereas host targets of LF (mitogen-activated protein-kinase
kinases) and EF (cAMP-dependent processes) have been implicated in the initial
phase of anthrax, less is understood about toxin action during the final stage of
infection. Here we use Drosophila melanogaster to identify the Rab11/Sec15
exocyst, which acts at the last step of endocytic recycling, as a novel target of
both EF and LF. EF reduces levels of apically localized Rab11 and indirectly
blocks vesicle formation by its binding partner and effector Sec15 (Sec15-GFP),
whereas LF acts more directly to reduce Sec15-GFP vesicles. Convergent effects of
EF and LF on Rab11/Sec15 inhibit expression of and signalling by the Notch ligand
Delta and reduce DE-cadherin levels at adherens junctions. In human endothelial
cells, the two toxins act in a conserved fashion to block formation of Sec15
vesicles, inhibit Notch signalling, and reduce cadherin expression at adherens
junctions. This coordinated disruption of the Rab11/Sec15 exocyst by anthrax
toxins may contribute to toxin-dependent barrier disruption and vascular
dysfunction during B. anthracis infection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09446 
PMCID: PMC5831355
PMID: 20944747  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):844-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09448.

The structural basis for autonomous dimerization of the pre-T-cell antigen
receptor.

Pang SS(1), Berry R, Chen Z, Kjer-Nielsen L, Perugini MA, King GF, Wang C, Chew
SH, La Gruta NL, Williams NK, Beddoe T, Tiganis T, Cowieson NP, Godfrey DI,
Purcell AW, Wilce MC, McCluskey J, Rossjohn J.

Author information: 
(1)The Protein Crystallography Unit, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular
Biology, School of Biomedical Sciences, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria
3800, Australia.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):793-4.

The pre-T-cell antigen receptor (pre-TCR), expressed by immature thymocytes, has 
a pivotal role in early T-cell development, including TCR β-selection, survival
and proliferation of CD4(-)CD8(-) double-negative thymocytes, and subsequent αβ
T-cell lineage differentiation. Whereas αβTCR ligation by the peptide-loaded
major histocompatibility complex initiates T-cell signalling, pre-TCR-induced
signalling occurs by means of a ligand-independent dimerization event. The
pre-TCR comprises an invariant α-chain (pre-Tα) that pairs with any TCR β-chain
(TCRβ) following successful TCR β-gene rearrangement. Here we provide the basis
of pre-Tα-TCRβ assembly and pre-TCR dimerization. The pre-Tα chain comprised a
single immunoglobulin-like domain that is structurally distinct from the constant
(C) domain of the TCR α-chain; nevertheless, the mode of association between
pre-Tα and TCRβ mirrored that mediated by the Cα-Cβ domains of the αβTCR. The
pre-TCR had a propensity to dimerize in solution, and the molecular envelope of
the pre-TCR dimer correlated well with the observed head-to-tail pre-TCR dimer.
This mode of pre-TCR dimerization enabled the pre-Tα domain to interact with the 
variable (V) β domain through residues that are highly conserved across the Vβ
and joining (J) β gene families, thus mimicking the interactions at the core of
the αβTCR's Vα-Vβ interface. Disruption of this pre-Tα-Vβ dimer interface
abrogated pre-TCR dimerization in solution and impaired pre-TCR expression on the
cell surface. Accordingly, we provide a mechanism of pre-TCR self-association
that allows the pre-Tα chain to simultaneously 'sample' the correct folding of
both the V and C domains of any TCR β-chain, regardless of its ultimate
specificity, which represents a critical checkpoint in T-cell development. This
unusual dual-chaperone-like sensing function of pre-Tα represents a unique
mechanism in nature whereby developmental quality control regulates the
expression and signalling of an integral membrane receptor complex.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09448 
PMID: 20944746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):839-43. doi: 10.1038/nature09429.

xnd-1 regulates the global recombination landscape in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Wagner CR(1), Kuervers L, Baillie DL, Yanowitz JL.

Author information: 
(1)Carnegie Institution of Washington, Department of Embryology, Baltimore,
Maryland 21218, USA.

Meiotic crossover (CO) recombination establishes physical linkages between
homologous chromosomes that are required for their proper segregation into
developing gametes, and promotes genetic diversity by shuffling genetic material 
between parental chromosomes. COs require the formation of double strand breaks
(DSBs) to create the substrate for strand exchange. DSBs occur in small intervals
called hotspots and significant variation in hotspot usage exists between and
among individuals. This variation is thought to reflect differences in sequence
identity and chromatin structure, DNA topology and/ or chromosome domain
organization. Chromosomes show different frequencies of nondisjunction (NDJ),
reflecting inherent differences in meiotic crossover control, yet the underlying 
basis of these differences remains elusive. Here we show that a novel chromatin
factor, X non-disjunction factor 1 (xnd-1), is responsible for the global
distribution of COs in C. elegans. xnd-1 is also required for formation of
double-strand breaks (DSBs) on the X, but surprisingly XND-1 protein is
autosomally enriched. We show that xnd-1 functions independently of genes
required for X chromosome-specific gene silencing, revealing a novel pathway that
distinguishes the X from autosomes in the germ line, and further show that xnd-1 
exerts its effects on COs, at least in part, by modulating levels of H2A lysine 5
acetylation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09429 
PMCID: PMC3045774
PMID: 20944745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):824-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09455.

An amorphous solid state of biogenic secondary organic aerosol particles.

Virtanen A(1), Joutsensaari J, Koop T, Kannosto J, Yli-Pirilä P, Leskinen J,
Mäkelä JM, Holopainen JK, Pöschl U, Kulmala M, Worsnop DR, Laaksonen A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Tampere University of Technology, P O Box 692, 33101
Tampere, Finland. annele.virtanen@tut.fi

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):797-8.

Secondary organic aerosol (SOA) particles are formed in the atmosphere from
condensable oxidation products of anthropogenic and biogenic volatile organic
compounds (VOCs). On a global scale, biogenic VOCs account for about 90% of VOC
emissions and of SOA formation (90 billion kilograms of carbon per year). SOA
particles can scatter radiation and act as cloud condensation or ice nuclei, and 
thereby influence the Earth's radiation balance and climate. They consist of a
myriad of different compounds with varying physicochemical properties, and little
information is available on the phase state of SOA particles. Gas-particle
partitioning models usually assume that SOA particles are liquid, but here we
present experimental evidence that they can be solid under ambient conditions. We
investigated biogenic SOA particles formed from oxidation products of VOCs in
plant chamber experiments and in boreal forests within a few hours after
atmospheric nucleation events. On the basis of observed particle bouncing in an
aerosol impactor and of electron microscopy we conclude that biogenic SOA
particles can adopt an amorphous solid-most probably glassy-state. This amorphous
solid state should provoke a rethinking of SOA processes because it may influence
the partitioning of semi-volatile compounds, reduce the rate of heterogeneous
chemical reactions, affect the particles' ability to accommodate water and act as
cloud condensation or ice nuclei, and change the atmospheric lifetime of the
particles. Thus, the results of this study challenge traditional views of the
kinetics and thermodynamics of SOA formation and transformation in the atmosphere
and their implications for air quality and climate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09455 
PMID: 20944744  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):817-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09456.

A recent disruption of the main-belt asteroid P/2010 A2.

Jewitt D(1), Weaver H, Agarwal J, Mutchler M, Drahus M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Space Sciences, 3713 Geology Building, UCLA, 595
Charles Young Drive East, California 90095, USA. jewitt@ucla.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):792-3.

Most inner main-belt asteroids are primitive rock and metal bodies in orbit about
the Sun between Mars and Jupiter. Disruption, through high-velocity collisions or
rotational spin-up, is believed to be the primary mechanism for the production
and destruction of small asteroids and a contributor to dust in the Sun's
zodiacal cloud, while analogous collisions around other stars feed dust to their 
debris disks. Unfortunately, direct evidence about the mechanism or rate of
disruption is lacking, owing to the rarity of the events. Here we report
observations of P/2010 A2, a previously unknown inner-belt asteroid with a
peculiar, comet-like morphology. The data reveal a nucleus of diameter
approximately 120 metres with an associated tail of millimetre-sized dust
particles. We conclude that it is most probably the remnant of a recent
asteroidal disruption in February/March 2009, evolving slowly under the action of
solar radiation pressure, in agreement with independent work.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09456 
PMID: 20944743 


201. Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):814-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09453.

A collision in 2009 as the origin of the debris trail of asteroid P/2010 A2.

Snodgrass C(1), Tubiana C, Vincent JB, Sierks H, Hviid S, Moissl R, Boehnhardt H,
Barbieri C, Koschny D, Lamy P, Rickman H, Rodrigo R, Carry B, Lowry SC, Laird RJ,
Weissman PR, Fitzsimmons A, Marchi S; OSIRIS team.

Collaborators: A'Hearn M, Angrilli F, Barucci A, Bertaux JL, Cremonese G, Da
Deppo V, Davidsson B, Debei S, De Cecco M, Fornasier S, Gutiérrez P, Ip WH,
Keller HU, Knollenberg J, Kramm JR, Kuehrt E, Kueppers M, Lara LM, Lazzarin M,
López-Moreno JJ, Marzari F, Michalik H, Naletto G, Sabau L, Thomas N, Wenzel KP.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Sonnensystemforschung, Max-Planck-Strasse 2, 37191
Katlenburg-Lindau, Germany. snodgrass@mps.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):792-3.

The peculiar object P/2010 A2 was discovered in January 2010 and given a cometary
designation because of the presence of a trail of material, although there was no
central condensation or coma. The appearance of this object, in an asteroidal
orbit (small eccentricity and inclination) in the inner main asteroid belt
attracted attention as a potential new member of the recently recognized class of
main-belt comets. If confirmed, this new object would expand the range in
heliocentric distance over which main-belt comets are found. Here we report
observations of P/2010 A2 by the Rosetta spacecraft. We conclude that the trail
arose from a single event, rather than a period of cometary activity, in
agreement with independent results. The trail is made up of relatively large
particles of millimetre to centimetre size that remain close to the parent
asteroid. The shape of the trail can be explained by an initial impact ejecting
large clumps of debris that disintegrated and dispersed almost immediately. We
determine that this was an asteroid collision that occurred around 10 February
2009.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09453 
PMID: 20944742 


202. Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):811-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09451.

Gas accretion as the origin of chemical abundance gradients in distant galaxies.

Cresci G(1), Mannucci F, Maiolino R, Marconi A, Gnerucci A, Magrini L.

Author information: 
(1)INAF - Osservatorio Astrofisico di Arcetri, Largo E. Fermi 5, 50125 Firenze,
Italy. gcresci@arcetri.astro.it

It has recently been suggested that galaxies in the early Universe could have
grown through the accretion of cold gas, and that this may have been the main
driver of star formation and stellar mass growth. Because the cold gas is
essentially primordial, it has a very low abundance of elements heavier than
helium (referred to as metallicity). If funnelled to the centre of a galaxy, it
will result in the central gas having an overall lower metallicity than gas
further from the centre, because the gas further out has been enriched by
supernovae and stellar winds, and not diluted by the primordial gas. Here we
report chemical abundances across three rotationally supported star-forming
galaxies at redshift z ≈ 3, only 2 Gyr after the Big Bang. We find 'inverse'
gradients, with the central, star-forming regions having lower metallicities than
less active ones, which is opposite to what is seen in local galaxies. We
conclude that the central gas has been diluted by the accretion of primordial
gas, as predicted by 'cold flow' models.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09451 
PMID: 20944741 


203. Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):805-10. doi: 10.1038/nature09423.

The Ndc80 kinetochore complex forms oligomeric arrays along microtubules.

Alushin GM(1), Ramey VH, Pasqualato S, Ball DA, Grigorieff N, Musacchio A,
Nogales E.

Author information: 
(1)Biophysics Graduate Group, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA.

The Ndc80 complex is a key site of regulated kinetochore-microtubule attachment
(a process required for cell division), but the molecular mechanism underlying
its function remains unknown. Here we present a subnanometre-resolution
cryo-electron microscopy reconstruction of the human Ndc80 complex bound to
microtubules, sufficient for precise docking of crystal structures of the
component proteins. We find that the Ndc80 complex binds the microtubule with a
tubulin monomer repeat, recognizing α- and β-tubulin at both intra- and
inter-tubulin dimer interfaces in a manner that is sensitive to tubulin
conformation. Furthermore, Ndc80 complexes self-associate along protofilaments
through interactions mediated by the amino-terminal tail of the NDC80 protein,
which is the site of phospho-regulation by Aurora B kinase. The complex's mode of
interaction with the microtubule and its oligomerization suggest a mechanism by
which Aurora B could regulate the stability of load-bearing
kinetochore-microtubule attachments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09423 
PMCID: PMC2957311
PMID: 20944740  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):801-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09461.

Rise and fall of political complexity in island South-East Asia and the Pacific.

Currie TE(1), Greenhill SJ, Gray RD, Hasegawa T, Mace R.

Author information: 
(1)Evolutionary Cognitive Science Research Center, Graduate School of Arts and
Sciences, University of Tokyo 153-8902, Japan. t.currie@ucl.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):798-9.

There is disagreement about whether human political evolution has proceeded
through a sequence of incremental increases in complexity, or whether larger,
non-sequential increases have occurred. The extent to which societies have
decreased in complexity is also unclear. These debates have continued largely in 
the absence of rigorous, quantitative tests. We evaluated six competing models of
political evolution in Austronesian-speaking societies using phylogenetic
methods. Here we show that in the best-fitting model political complexity rises
and falls in a sequence of small steps. This is closely followed by another model
in which increases are sequential but decreases can be either sequential or in
bigger drops. The results indicate that large, non-sequential jumps in political 
complexity have not occurred during the evolutionary history of these societies. 
This suggests that, despite the numerous contingent pathways of human history,
there are regularities in cultural evolution that can be detected using
computational phylogenetic methods.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09461 
PMID: 20944739  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):828-31. doi: 10.1038/nature09401. Epub 2010 Oct 3.

Seismic evidence of negligible water carried below 400-km depth in subducting
lithosphere.

Green HW 2nd(1), Chen WP, Brudzinski MR.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Geophysics and Planetary Physics and Department of Earth
Sciences, University of California, Riverside, California 92521, USA.
harry.green@ucr.edu

Strong evidence exists that water is carried from the surface into the upper
mantle by hydrous minerals in the uppermost 10-12 km of subducting lithosphere,
and more water may be added as the lithosphere bends and goes downwards.
Significant amounts of that water are released as the lithosphere heats up,
triggering earthquakes and fluxing arc volcanism. In addition, there is
experimental evidence for high solubility of water in olivine, the most abundant 
mineral in the upper mantle, for even higher solubility in olivine's
high-pressure polymorphs, wadsleyite and ringwoodite, and for the existence of
dense hydrous magnesium silicates that potentially could carry water well into
the lower mantle (deeper than 1,000 km). Here we compare experimental and seismic
evidence to test whether patterns of seismicity and the stabilities of these
potentially relevant hydrous phases are consistent with a wet lithosphere. We
show that there is nearly a one-to-one correlation between dehydration of
minerals and seismicity at depths less than about 250 km, and conclude that the
dehydration of minerals is the trigger of instability that leads to seismicity.
At greater depths, however, we find no correlation between occurrences of
earthquakes and depths where breakdown of hydrous phases is expected. Lastly, we 
note that there is compelling evidence for the existence of metastable olivine
(which, if present, can explain the distribution of deep-focus earthquakes) west 
of and within the subducting Tonga slab and also in three other subduction zones,
despite metastable olivine being incompatible with even extremely small amounts
of water (of the order of 100 p.p.m. by weight). We conclude that subducting
slabs are essentially dry at depths below 400 km and thus do not provide a
pathway for significant amounts of water to enter the mantle transition zone or
the lower mantle.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09401 
PMID: 20927105 


206. Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):849-53. doi: 10.1038/nature09409. Epub 2010 Oct 3.

ETV1 is a lineage survival factor that cooperates with KIT in gastrointestinal
stromal tumours.

Chi P(1), Chen Y, Zhang L, Guo X, Wongvipat J, Shamu T, Fletcher JA, Dewell S,
Maki RG, Zheng D, Antonescu CR, Allis CD, Sawyers CL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New 
York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):796-7.

Gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST) is the most common human sarcoma and is
primarily defined by activating mutations in the KIT or PDGFRA receptor tyrosine 
kinases. KIT is highly expressed in interstitial cells of Cajal (ICCs)-the
presumed cell of origin for GIST-as well as in haematopoietic stem cells,
melanocytes, mast cells and germ cells. Yet, families harbouring germline
activating KIT mutations and mice with knock-in Kit mutations almost exclusively 
develop ICC hyperplasia and GIST, suggesting that the cellular context is
important for KIT to mediate oncogenesis. Here we show that the ETS family member
ETV1 is highly expressed in the subtypes of ICCs sensitive to oncogenic KIT
mediated transformation, and is required for their development. In addition, ETV1
is universally highly expressed in GISTs and is required for growth of
imatinib-sensitive and resistant GIST cell lines. Transcriptome profiling and
global analyses of ETV1-binding sites suggest that ETV1 is a master regulator of 
an ICC-GIST-specific transcription network mainly through enhancer binding. The
ETV1 transcriptional program is further regulated by activated KIT, which
prolongs ETV1 protein stability and cooperates with ETV1 to promote
tumorigenesis. We propose that GIST arises from ICCs with high levels of
endogenous ETV1 expression that, when coupled with an activating KIT mutation,
drives an oncogenic ETS transcriptional program. This differs from other
ETS-dependent tumours such as prostate cancer, melanoma and Ewing sarcoma where
genomic translocation or amplification drives aberrant ETS expression. It also
represents a novel mechanism of oncogenic transcription factor activation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09409 
PMCID: PMC2955195
PMID: 20927104  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):832-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09410. Epub 2010 Sep 29.

Hundreds of variants clustered in genomic loci and biological pathways affect
human height.

Lango Allen H(1), Estrada K, Lettre G, Berndt SI, Weedon MN, Rivadeneira F,
Willer CJ, Jackson AU, Vedantam S, Raychaudhuri S, Ferreira T, Wood AR, Weyant
RJ, Segrè AV, Speliotes EK, Wheeler E, Soranzo N, Park JH, Yang J, Gudbjartsson
D, Heard-Costa NL, Randall JC, Qi L, Vernon Smith A, Mägi R, Pastinen T, Liang L,
Heid IM, Luan J, Thorleifsson G, Winkler TW, Goddard ME, Sin Lo K, Palmer C,
Workalemahu T, Aulchenko YS, Johansson A, Zillikens MC, Feitosa MF, Esko T,
Johnson T, Ketkar S, Kraft P, Mangino M, Prokopenko I, Absher D, Albrecht E,
Ernst F, Glazer NL, Hayward C, Hottenga JJ, Jacobs KB, Knowles JW, Kutalik Z,
Monda KL, Polasek O, Preuss M, Rayner NW, Robertson NR, Steinthorsdottir V, Tyrer
JP, Voight BF, Wiklund F, Xu J, Zhao JH, Nyholt DR, Pellikka N, Perola M, Perry
JR, Surakka I, Tammesoo ML, Altmaier EL, Amin N, Aspelund T, Bhangale T, Boucher 
G, Chasman DI, Chen C, Coin L, Cooper MN, Dixon AL, Gibson Q, Grundberg E, Hao K,
Juhani Junttila M, Kaplan LM, Kettunen J, König IR, Kwan T, Lawrence RW, Levinson
DF, Lorentzon M, McKnight B, Morris AP, Müller M, Suh Ngwa J, Purcell S, Rafelt
S, Salem RM, Salvi E, Sanna S, Shi J, Sovio U, Thompson JR, Turchin MC, Vandenput
L, Verlaan DJ, Vitart V, White CC, Ziegler A, Almgren P, Balmforth AJ, Campbell
H, Citterio L, De Grandi A, Dominiczak A, Duan J, Elliott P, Elosua R, Eriksson
JG, Freimer NB, Geus EJ, Glorioso N, Haiqing S, Hartikainen AL, Havulinna AS,
Hicks AA, Hui J, Igl W, Illig T, Jula A, Kajantie E, Kilpeläinen TO, Koiranen M, 
Kolcic I, Koskinen S, Kovacs P, Laitinen J, Liu J, Lokki ML, Marusic A, Maschio
A, Meitinger T, Mulas A, Paré G, Parker AN, Peden JF, Petersmann A, Pichler I,
Pietiläinen KH, Pouta A, Ridderstråle M, Rotter JI, Sambrook JG, Sanders AR,
Schmidt CO, Sinisalo J, Smit JH, Stringham HM, Bragi Walters G, Widen E, Wild SH,
Willemsen G, Zagato L, Zgaga L, Zitting P, Alavere H, Farrall M, McArdle WL,
Nelis M, Peters MJ, Ripatti S, van Meurs JB, Aben KK, Ardlie KG, Beckmann JS,
Beilby JP, Bergman RN, Bergmann S, Collins FS, Cusi D, den Heijer M, Eiriksdottir
G, Gejman PV, Hall AS, Hamsten A, Huikuri HV, Iribarren C, Kähönen M, Kaprio J,
Kathiresan S, Kiemeney L, Kocher T, Launer LJ, Lehtimäki T, Melander O, Mosley TH
Jr, Musk AW, Nieminen MS, O'Donnell CJ, Ohlsson C, Oostra B, Palmer LJ, Raitakari
O, Ridker PM, Rioux JD, Rissanen A, Rivolta C, Schunkert H, Shuldiner AR,
Siscovick DS, Stumvoll M, Tönjes A, Tuomilehto J, van Ommen GJ, Viikari J, Heath 
AC, Martin NG, Montgomery GW, Province MA, Kayser M, Arnold AM, Atwood LD,
Boerwinkle E, Chanock SJ, Deloukas P, Gieger C, Grönberg H, Hall P, Hattersley
AT, Hengstenberg C, Hoffman W, Lathrop GM, Salomaa V, Schreiber S, Uda M,
Waterworth D, Wright AF, Assimes TL, Barroso I, Hofman A, Mohlke KL, Boomsma DI, 
Caulfield MJ, Cupples LA, Erdmann J, Fox CS, Gudnason V, Gyllensten U, Harris TB,
Hayes RB, Jarvelin MR, Mooser V, Munroe PB, Ouwehand WH, Penninx BW, Pramstaller 
PP, Quertermous T, Rudan I, Samani NJ, Spector TD, Völzke H, Watkins H, Wilson
JF, Groop LC, Haritunians T, Hu FB, Kaplan RC, Metspalu A, North KE, Schlessinger
D, Wareham NJ, Hunter DJ, O'Connell JR, Strachan DP, Wichmann HE, Borecki IB, van
Duijn CM, Schadt EE, Thorsteinsdottir U, Peltonen L, Uitterlinden AG, Visscher
PM, Chatterjee N, Loos RJ, Boehnke M, McCarthy MI, Ingelsson E, Lindgren CM,
Abecasis GR, Stefansson K, Frayling TM, Hirschhorn JN.

Author information: 
(1)Genetics of Complex Traits, Peninsula College of Medicine and Dentistry,
University of Exeter, Exeter EX1 2LU, UK.

Most common human traits and diseases have a polygenic pattern of inheritance:
DNA sequence variants at many genetic loci influence the phenotype. Genome-wide
association (GWA) studies have identified more than 600 variants associated with 
human traits, but these typically explain small fractions of phenotypic
variation, raising questions about the use of further studies. Here, using
183,727 individuals, we show that hundreds of genetic variants, in at least 180
loci, influence adult height, a highly heritable and classic polygenic trait. The
large number of loci reveals patterns with important implications for genetic
studies of common human diseases and traits. First, the 180 loci are not random, 
but instead are enriched for genes that are connected in biological pathways (P =
0.016) and that underlie skeletal growth defects (P < 0.001). Second, the likely 
causal gene is often located near the most strongly associated variant: in 13 of 
21 loci containing a known skeletal growth gene, that gene was closest to the
associated variant. Third, at least 19 loci have multiple independently
associated variants, suggesting that allelic heterogeneity is a frequent feature 
of polygenic traits, that comprehensive explorations of already-discovered loci
should discover additional variants and that an appreciable fraction of
associated loci may have been identified. Fourth, associated variants are
enriched for likely functional effects on genes, being over-represented among
variants that alter amino-acid structure of proteins and expression levels of
nearby genes. Our data explain approximately 10% of the phenotypic variation in
height, and we estimate that unidentified common variants of similar effect sizes
would increase this figure to approximately 16% of phenotypic variation
(approximately 20% of heritable variation). Although additional approaches are
needed to dissect the genetic architecture of polygenic human traits fully, our
findings indicate that GWA studies can identify large numbers of loci that
implicate biologically relevant genes and pathways.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09410 
PMCID: PMC2955183
PMID: 20881960  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):820-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09443. Epub 2010 Sep 19.

Laser cooling of a diatomic molecule.

Shuman ES(1), Barry JF, Demille D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Yale University, PO Box 208120, New Haven, Connecticut 
06520, USA. edward.shuman@yale.edu

It has been roughly three decades since laser cooling techniques produced
ultracold atoms, leading to rapid advances in a wide array of fields. Laser
cooling has not yet been extended to molecules because of their complex internal 
structure. However, this complexity makes molecules potentially useful for a wide
range of applications. For example, heteronuclear molecules possess permanent
electric dipole moments that lead to long-range, tunable, anisotropic
dipole-dipole interactions. The combination of the dipole-dipole interaction and 
the precise control over molecular degrees of freedom possible at ultracold
temperatures makes ultracold molecules attractive candidates for use in quantum
simulations of condensed-matter systems and in quantum computation. Also,
ultracold molecules could provide unique opportunities for studying chemical
dynamics and for tests of fundamental symmetries. Here we experimentally
demonstrate laser cooling of the polar molecule strontium monofluoride (SrF).
Using an optical cycling scheme requiring only three lasers, we have observed
both Sisyphus and Doppler cooling forces that reduce the transverse temperature
of a SrF molecular beam substantially, to a few millikelvin or less. At present, 
the only technique for producing ultracold molecules is to bind together
ultracold alkali atoms through Feshbach resonance or photoassociation. However,
proposed applications for ultracold molecules require a variety of molecular
energy-level structures (for example unpaired electronic spin, Omega doublets and
so on). Our method provides an alternative route to ultracold molecules. In
particular, it bridges the gap between ultracold (submillikelvin) temperatures
and the ∼1-K temperatures attainable with directly cooled molecules (for example 
with cryogenic buffer-gas cooling or decelerated supersonic beams). Ultimately,
our technique should allow the production of large samples of molecules at
ultracold temperatures for species that are chemically distinct from bialkalis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09443 
PMID: 20852614 


209. Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):704-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09407.

Global metabolic impacts of recent climate warming.

Dillon ME(1), Wang G, Huey RB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology and Physiology, University of Wyoming, Laramie, Wyoming 
82071, USA. Michael.Dillon@uwyo.edu

Documented shifts in geographical ranges, seasonal phenology, community
interactions, genetics and extinctions have been attributed to recent global
warming. Many such biotic shifts have been detected at mid- to high latitudes in 
the Northern Hemisphere-a latitudinal pattern that is expected because warming is
fastest in these regions. In contrast, shifts in tropical regions are expected to
be less marked because warming is less pronounced there. However, biotic impacts 
of warming are mediated through physiology, and metabolic rate, which is a
fundamental measure of physiological activity and ecological impact, increases
exponentially rather than linearly with temperature in ectotherms. Therefore,
tropical ectotherms (with warm baseline temperatures) should experience larger
absolute shifts in metabolic rate than the magnitude of tropical temperature
change itself would suggest, but the impact of climate warming on metabolic rate 
has never been quantified on a global scale. Here we show that estimated changes 
in terrestrial metabolic rates in the tropics are large, are equivalent in
magnitude to those in the north temperate-zone regions, and are in fact far
greater than those in the Arctic, even though tropical temperature change has
been relatively small. Because of temperature's nonlinear effects on metabolism, 
tropical organisms, which constitute much of Earth's biodiversity, should be
profoundly affected by recent and projected climate warming.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09407 
PMID: 20930843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):700-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09417.

Melting above the anhydrous solidus controls the location of volcanic arcs.

England PC(1), Katz RF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, South Parks Road, Oxford, OX1 3AN, UK.
philip@earth.ox.ac.uk

Segregation of magma from the mantle in subduction zones is one of the principal 
mechanisms for chemical differentiation of the Earth. Fundamental aspects of this
system, in particular the processes by which melt forms and travels to the
Earth's surface, remain obscure. Systematics in the location of volcanic arcs,
the surface expression of this melting, are widely considered to be a clue to
processes taking place at depth, but many mutually incompatible interpretations
of this clue exist (for example, see refs 1-6). We discriminate between those
interpretations by the use of a simple scaling argument derived from a realistic 
mathematical model of heat transfer in subduction zones. The locations of the
arcs cannot be explained by the release of fluids in reactions taking place near 
the top of the slab. Instead, the sharpness of the volcanic fronts, together with
the systematics of their locations, requires that arcs must be located above the 
place where the boundary defined by the anhydrous solidus makes its closest
approach to the trench. We show that heat carried by magma rising from this
region is sufficient to modify the thermal structure of the wedge and determine
the pathway through which both wet and dry melts reach the surface.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09417 
PMID: 20930842 


211. Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):696-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09426.

An influence of solar spectral variations on radiative forcing of climate.

Haigh JD(1), Winning AR, Toumi R, Harder JW.

Author information: 
(1)Blackett Laboratory, Imperial College London, London SW7 2AZ, UK.
j.haigh@imperial.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):668-9.

The thermal structure and composition of the atmosphere is determined
fundamentally by the incoming solar irradiance. Radiation at ultraviolet
wavelengths dissociates atmospheric molecules, initiating chains of chemical
reactions-specifically those producing stratospheric ozone-and providing the
major source of heating for the middle atmosphere, while radiation at visible and
near-infrared wavelengths mainly reaches and warms the lower atmosphere and the
Earth's surface. Thus the spectral composition of solar radiation is crucial in
determining atmospheric structure, as well as surface temperature, and it follows
that the response of the atmosphere to variations in solar irradiance depends on 
the spectrum. Daily measurements of the solar spectrum between 0.2 µm and 2.4 µm,
made by the Spectral Irradiance Monitor (SIM) instrument on the Solar Radiation
and Climate Experiment (SORCE) satellite since April 2004, have revealed that
over this declining phase of the solar cycle there was a four to six times larger
decline in ultraviolet than would have been predicted on the basis of our
previous understanding. This reduction was partially compensated in the total
solar output by an increase in radiation at visible wavelengths. Here we show
that these spectral changes appear to have led to a significant decline from 2004
to 2007 in stratospheric ozone below an altitude of 45 km, with an increase above
this altitude. Our results, simulated with a radiative-photochemical model, are
consistent with contemporaneous measurements of ozone from the Aura-MLS
satellite, although the short time period makes precise attribution to solar
effects difficult. We also show, using the SIM data, that solar radiative forcing
of surface climate is out of phase with solar activity. Currently there is
insufficient observational evidence to validate the spectral variations observed 
by SIM, or to fully characterize other solar cycles, but our findings raise the
possibility that the effects of solar variability on temperature throughout the
atmosphere may be contrary to current expectations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09426 
PMID: 20930841 


212. Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):692-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09404.

Geometry-induced electrostatic trapping of nanometric objects in a fluid.

Krishnan M(1), Mojarad N, Kukura P, Sandoghdar V.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Physical Chemistry, ETH Zurich, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland.
mkrishnan@ethz.ch

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):666-7.

The ability to trap an object-whether a single atom or a macroscopic
entity-affects fields as diverse as quantum optics, soft condensed-matter
physics, biophysics and clinical medicine. Many sophisticated methodologies have 
been developed to counter the randomizing effect of Brownian motion in solution, 
but stable trapping of nanometre-sized objects remains challenging. Optical
tweezers are widely used traps, but require sufficiently polarizable objects and 
thus are unable to manipulate small macromolecules. Confinement of single
molecules has been achieved using electrokinetic feedback guided by tracking of a
fluorescent label, but photophysical constraints limit the trap stiffness and
lifetime. Here we show that a fluidic slit with appropriately tailored topography
has a spatially modulated electrostatic potential that can trap and levitate
charged objects in solution for up to several hours. We illustrate this principle
with gold particles, polymer beads and lipid vesicles with diameters of tens of
nanometres, which are all trapped without external intervention and independently
of their mass and dielectric function. The stiffness and stability of our
electrostatic trap is easily tuned by adjusting the system geometry and the ionic
strength of the solution, and it lends itself to integration with other
manipulation mechanisms. We anticipate that these features will allow its use for
contact-free confinement of single proteins and macromolecules, and the sorting
and fractionation of nanometre-sized objects or their assembly into high-density 
arrays.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09404 
PMID: 20930840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):684-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09452.

High star formation rates as the origin of turbulence in early and modern disk
galaxies.

Green AW(1), Glazebrook K, McGregor PJ, Abraham RG, Poole GB, Damjanov I,
McCarthy PJ, Colless M, Sharp RG.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Astrophysics and Supercomputing, Swinburne University, PO Box 218, 
Hawthorn, Victoria 3122, Australia. agreen@astro.swin.edu.au

Observations of star formation and kinematics in early galaxies at high spatial
and spectral resolution have shown that two-thirds are massive rotating disk
galaxies, with the remainder being less massive non-rotating objects. The
line-of-sight-averaged velocity dispersions are typically five times higher than 
in today's disk galaxies. This suggests that gravitationally unstable, gas-rich
disks in the early Universe are fuelled by cold, dense accreting gas flowing
along cosmic filaments and penetrating hot galactic gas halos. These accreting
flows, however, have not been observed, and cosmic accretion cannot power the
observed level of turbulence. Here we report observations of a sample of rare,
high-velocity-dispersion disk galaxies in the nearby Universe where cold
accretion is unlikely to drive their high star formation rates. We find that
their velocity dispersions are correlated with their star formation rates, but
not their masses or gas fractions, which suggests that star formation is the
energetic driver of galaxy disk turbulence at all cosmic epochs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09452 
PMID: 20930839 


214. Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):673-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09424.

Functional connectivity in the retina at the resolution of photoreceptors.

Field GD(1), Gauthier JL, Sher A, Greschner M, Machado TA, Jepson LH, Shlens J,
Gunning DE, Mathieson K, Dabrowski W, Paninski L, Litke AM, Chichilnisky EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Systems Neurobiology Laboratories, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La
Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):670-1.

To understand a neural circuit requires knowledge of its connectivity. Here we
report measurements of functional connectivity between the input and ouput layers
of the macaque retina at single-cell resolution and the implications of these for
colour vision. Multi-electrode technology was used to record simultaneously from 
complete populations of the retinal ganglion cell types (midget, parasol and
small bistratified) that transmit high-resolution visual signals to the brain.
Fine-grained visual stimulation was used to identify the location, type and
strength of the functional input of each cone photoreceptor to each ganglion
cell. The populations of ON and OFF midget and parasol cells each sampled the
complete population of long- and middle-wavelength-sensitive cones. However, only
OFF midget cells frequently received strong input from short-wavelength-sensitive
cones. ON and OFF midget cells showed a small non-random tendency to selectively 
sample from either long- or middle-wavelength-sensitive cones to a degree not
explained by clumping in the cone mosaic. These measurements reveal computations 
in a neural circuit at the elementary resolution of individual neurons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09424 
PMCID: PMC2953734
PMID: 20930838  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):734-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09406. Epub 2010 Sep 26.

Structure of a fucose transporter in an outward-open conformation.

Dang S(1), Sun L, Huang Y, Lu F, Liu Y, Gong H, Wang J, Yan N.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bio-membrane and Membrane Biotechnology, Center for
Structural Biology, School of Life Sciences and School of Medicine, Tsinghua
University, Beijing 100084, China.

The major facilitator superfamily (MFS) transporters are an ancient and
widespread family of secondary active transporters. In Escherichia coli, the
uptake of l-fucose, a source of carbon for microorganisms, is mediated by an MFS 
proton symporter, FucP. Despite intensive study of the MFS transporters, atomic
structure information is only available on three proteins and the outward-open
conformation has yet to be captured. Here we report the crystal structure of FucP
at 3.1 Å resolution, which shows that it contains an outward-open, amphipathic
cavity. The similarly folded amino and carboxyl domains of FucP have contrasting 
surface features along the transport path, with negative electrostatic potential 
on the N domain and hydrophobic surface on the C domain. FucP only contains two
acidic residues along the transport path, Asp 46 and Glu 135, which can undergo
cycles of protonation and deprotonation. Their essential role in active transport
is supported by both in vivo and in vitro experiments. Structure-based
biochemical analyses provide insights into energy coupling, substrate recognition
and the transport mechanism of FucP.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09406 
PMID: 20877283  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):687-91. doi: 10.1038/nature09392. Epub 2010 Sep 26.

Single-shot readout of an electron spin in silicon.

Morello A(1), Pla JJ, Zwanenburg FA, Chan KW, Tan KY, Huebl H, Möttönen M,
Nugroho CD, Yang C, van Donkelaar JA, Alves AD, Jamieson DN, Escott CC,
Hollenberg LC, Clark RG, Dzurak AS.

Author information: 
(1)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Quantum Computer
Technology, School of Electrical Engineering and Telecommunications, University
of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales 2052, Australia.
a.morello@unsw.edu.au

The size of silicon transistors used in microelectronic devices is shrinking to
the level at which quantum effects become important. Although this presents a
significant challenge for the further scaling of microprocessors, it provides the
potential for radical innovations in the form of spin-based quantum computers and
spintronic devices. An electron spin in silicon can represent a well-isolated
quantum bit with long coherence times because of the weak spin-orbit coupling and
the possibility of eliminating nuclear spins from the bulk crystal. However, the 
control of single electrons in silicon has proved challenging, and so far the
observation and manipulation of a single spin has been impossible. Here we report
the demonstration of single-shot, time-resolved readout of an electron spin in
silicon. This has been performed in a device consisting of implanted phosphorus
donors coupled to a metal-oxide-semiconductor single-electron
transistor-compatible with current microelectronic technology. We observed a spin
lifetime of ∼6 seconds at a magnetic field of 1.5 tesla, and achieved a spin
readout fidelity better than 90 per cent. High-fidelity single-shot spin readout 
in silicon opens the way to the development of a new generation of quantum
computing and spintronic devices, built using the most important material in the 
semiconductor industry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09392 
PMID: 20877281 


217. Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):729-33. doi: 10.1038/nature09391. Epub 2010 Sep 22.

Crystal structure of the human symplekin-Ssu72-CTD phosphopeptide complex.

Xiang K(1), Nagaike T, Xiang S, Kilic T, Beh MM, Manley JL, Tong L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Columbia University, New York, New York
10027, USA.

Symplekin (Pta1 in yeast) is a scaffold in the large protein complex that is
required for 3'-end cleavage and polyadenylation of eukaryotic messenger RNA
precursors (pre-mRNAs); it also participates in transcription initiation and
termination by RNA polymerase II (Pol II). Symplekin mediates interactions
between many different proteins in this machinery, although the molecular basis
for its function is not known. Here we report the crystal structure at 2.4 Å
resolution of the amino-terminal domain (residues 30-340) of human symplekin in a
ternary complex with the Pol II carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) Ser 5 phosphatase
Ssu72 (refs 7, 10-17) and a CTD Ser 5 phosphopeptide. The N-terminal domain of
symplekin has the ARM or HEAT fold, with seven pairs of antiparallel α-helices
arranged in the shape of an arc. The structure of Ssu72 has some similarity to
that of low-molecular-mass phosphotyrosine protein phosphatase, although Ssu72
has a unique active-site landscape as well as extra structural features at the C 
terminus that are important for interaction with symplekin. Ssu72 is bound to the
concave face of symplekin, and engineered mutations in this interface can abolish
interactions between the two proteins. The CTD peptide is bound in the active
site of Ssu72, with the pSer 5-Pro 6 peptide bond in the cis configuration, which
contrasts with all other known CTD peptide conformations. Although the active
site of Ssu72 is about 25 Å from the interface with symplekin, we found that the 
symplekin N-terminal domain stimulates Ssu72 CTD phosphatase activity in vitro.
Furthermore, the N-terminal domain of symplekin inhibits polyadenylation in
vitro, but only when coupled to transcription. Because catalytically active Ssu72
overcomes this inhibition, our results show a role for mammalian Ssu72 in
transcription-coupled pre-mRNA 3'-end processing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09391 
PMCID: PMC3038789
PMID: 20861839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):707-10. doi: 10.1038/nature09414. Epub 2010 Sep 22.

The ploidy conveyor of mature hepatocytes as a source of genetic variation.

Duncan AW(1), Taylor MH, Hickey RD, Hanlon Newell AE, Lenzi ML, Olson SB,
Finegold MJ, Grompe M.

Author information: 
(1)Oregon Stem Cell Center, Papé Family Pediatric Research Institute, Oregon
Health & Science University, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA. duncanan@ohsu.edu

Comment in
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2010 Dec;7(12):649.

Mononucleated and binucleated polyploid hepatocytes (4n, 8n, 16n and higher) are 
found in all mammalian species, but the functional significance of this conserved
phenomenon remains unknown. Polyploidization occurs through failed cytokinesis,
begins at weaning in rodents and increases with age. Previously, we demonstrated 
that the opposite event, ploidy reversal, also occurs in polyploid hepatocytes
generated by artificial cell fusion. This raised the possibility that somatic
'reductive mitoses' can also happen in normal hepatocytes. Here we show that
multipolar mitotic spindles form frequently in mouse polyploid hepatocytes and
can result in one-step ploidy reversal to generate offspring with halved
chromosome content. Proliferating hepatocytes produce a highly diverse population
of daughter cells with multiple numerical chromosome imbalances as well as
uniparental origins. Our findings support a dynamic model of hepatocyte
polyploidization, ploidy reversal and aneuploidy, a phenomenon that we term the
'ploidy conveyor'. We propose that this mechanism evolved to generate genetic
diversity and permits adaptation of hepatocytes to xenobiotic or nutritional
injury.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09414 
PMCID: PMC2967727
PMID: 20861837  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):714-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09445. Epub 2010 Sep 19.

Asterless is a scaffold for the onset of centriole assembly.

Dzhindzhev NS(1), Yu QD, Weiskopf K, Tzolovsky G, Cunha-Ferreira I, Riparbelli M,
Rodrigues-Martins A, Bettencourt-Dias M, Callaini G, Glover DM.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research UK Cell Cycle Genetics Group, University of Cambridge,
Department of Genetics, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EH, UK. nsd23@cam.ac.uk

Centrioles are found in the centrosome core and, as basal bodies, at the base of 
cilia and flagella. Centriole assembly and duplication is controlled by
Polo-like-kinase 4 (Plk4): these processes fail if Plk4 is downregulated and are 
promoted by Plk4 overexpression. Here we show that the centriolar protein
Asterless (Asl; human orthologue CEP152) provides a conserved molecular platform,
the amino terminus of which interacts with the cryptic Polo box of Plk4 whereas
the carboxy terminus interacts with the centriolar protein Sas-4 (CPAP in
humans). Drosophila Asl and human CEP152 are required for the centrosomal loading
of Plk4 in Drosophila and CPAP in human cells, respectively. Depletion of Asl or 
CEP152 caused failure of centrosome duplication; their overexpression led to de
novo centriole formation in Drosophila eggs, duplication of free centrosomes in
Drosophila embryos, and centrosome amplification in cultured Drosophila and human
cells. Overexpression of a Plk4-binding-deficient mutant of Asl prevented
centriole duplication in cultured cells and embryos. However, this mutant protein
was able to promote microtubule organizing centre (MTOC) formation in both
embryos and oocytes. Such MTOCs had pericentriolar material and the centriolar
protein Sas-4, but no centrioles at their core. Formation of such acentriolar
MTOCs could be phenocopied by overexpression of Sas-4 in oocytes or embryos. Our 
findings identify independent functions for Asl as a scaffold for Plk4 and Sas-4 
that facilitates self-assembly and duplication of the centriole and organization 
of pericentriolar material.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09445 
PMID: 20852615  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):711-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09397. Epub 2010 Sep 15.

The role of toxin A and toxin B in Clostridium difficile infection.

Kuehne SA(1), Cartman ST, Heap JT, Kelly ML, Cockayne A, Minton NP.

Author information: 
(1)Clostridia Research Group, Centre for Biomolecular Sciences, School of
Molecular Medical Sciences, Nottingham Digestive Diseases Centre, NIHR Biomedical
Research Unit, University of Nottingham, Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2010 Dec;7(12):654.
    Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):665-6.

Clostridium difficile infection is the leading cause of healthcare-associated
diarrhoea in Europe and North America. During infection, C. difficile produces
two key virulence determinants, toxin A and toxin B. Experiments with purified
toxins have indicated that toxin A alone is able to evoke the symptoms of C.
difficile infection, but toxin B is unable to do so unless it is mixed with toxin
A or there is prior damage to the gut mucosa. However, a recent study indicated
that toxin B is essential for C. difficile virulence and that a strain producing 
toxin A alone was avirulent. This creates a paradox over the individual
importance of toxin A and toxin B. Here we show that isogenic mutants of C.
difficile producing either toxin A or toxin B alone can cause fulminant disease
in the hamster model of infection. By using a gene knockout system to inactivate 
the toxin genes permanently, we found that C. difficile producing either one or
both toxins showed cytotoxic activity in vitro that translated directly into
virulence in vivo. Furthermore, by constructing the first ever double-mutant
strain of C. difficile, in which both toxin genes were inactivated, we were able 
to completely attenuate virulence. Our findings re-establish the importance of
both toxin A and toxin B and highlight the need to continue to consider both
toxins in the development of diagnostic tests and effective countermeasures
against C. difficile.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09397 
PMID: 20844489  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):724-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09372. Epub 2010 Sep 15.

Direct visualization of secondary structures of F-actin by electron
cryomicroscopy.

Fujii T(1), Iwane AH, Yanagida T, Namba K.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Frontier Biosciences, Osaka University, 1-3 Yamadaoka,
Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.

F-actin is a helical assembly of actin, which is a component of muscle fibres
essential for contraction and has a crucial role in numerous cellular processes, 
such as the formation of lamellipodia and filopodia, as the most abundant
component and regulator of cytoskeletons by dynamic assembly and disassembly
(from G-actin to F-actin and vice versa). Actin is a ubiquitous protein and is
involved in important biological functions, but the definitive high-resolution
structure of F-actin remains unknown. Although a recent atomic model well
reproduced X-ray fibre diffraction intensity data from a highly oriented
liquid-crystalline sol specimen, its refinement without experimental phase
information has certain limitations. Direct visualization of the structure by
electron cryomicroscopy, however, has been difficult because it is relatively
thin and flexible. Here we report the F-actin structure at 6.6 Å resolution, made
obtainable by recent advances in electron cryomicroscopy. The density map clearly
resolves all the secondary structures of G-actin, such as α-helices, β-structures
and loops, and makes unambiguous modelling and refinement possible. Complex
domain motions that open the nucleotide-binding pocket on F-actin formation,
specific D-loop and terminal conformations, and relatively tight axial but
markedly loose interprotofilament interactions hydrophilic in nature are revealed
in the F-actin model, and all seem to be important for dynamic functions of
actin.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09372 
PMID: 20844487  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):719-23. doi: 10.1038/nature09390. Epub 2010 Aug 25.

Phosphorylation of the CPC by Cdk1 promotes chromosome bi-orientation.

Tsukahara T(1), Tanno Y, Watanabe Y.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Chromosome Dynamics, Institute of Molecular and Cellular
Biosciences, University of Tokyo, Yayoi, Tokyo 113-0032, Japan.

Successful partition of replicated genomes at cell division requires chromosome
attachment to opposite poles of mitotic spindle (bi-orientation). Any defects in 
this regulation bring about chromosomal instability, which may accelerate tumour 
progression in humans. To achieve chromosome bi-orientation at prometaphase, the 
chromosomal passenger complex (CPC), composed of catalytic kinase Aurora B and
regulatory components (INCENP, Survivin and Borealin), must be localized to
centromeres to phosphorylate kinetochore substrates. Although the CPC dynamically
changes the subcellular localization, the regulation of centromere targeting is
largely unknown. Here we isolated a fission yeast cyclin B mutant defective
specifically in chromosome bi-orientation. Accordingly, we identified Cdk1 (also 
known as Cdc2)-cyclin-B-dependent phosphorylation of Survivin. Preventing
Survivin phosphorylation impairs centromere CPC targeting as well as chromosome
bi-orientation, whereas phosphomimetic Survivin suppresses the bi-orientation
defect in the cyclin B mutant. Survivin phosphorylation promotes direct binding
with shugoshin, which we now define as a conserved centromeric adaptor of the
CPC. In human cells, the phosphorylation of Borealin has a comparable role. Thus,
our study resolves the conserved mechanisms of CPC targeting to centromeres,
highlighting a key role of Cdk1-cyclin B in chromosome bi-orientation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09390 
PMID: 20739936  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):678-83. doi: 10.1038/nature09399.

Purified human BRCA2 stimulates RAD51-mediated recombination.

Jensen RB(1), Carreira A, Kowalczykowski SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of California, Davis, California 95616,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):667-8.

Mutation of the breast cancer susceptibility gene, BRCA2, leads to breast and
ovarian cancers. Mechanistic insight into the functions of human BRCA2 has been
limited by the difficulty of isolating this large protein (3,418 amino acids).
Here we report the purification of full-length BRCA2 and show that it both binds 
RAD51 and potentiates recombinational DNA repair by promoting assembly of RAD51
onto single-stranded DNA (ssDNA). BRCA2 acts by targeting RAD51 to ssDNA over
double-stranded DNA, enabling RAD51 to displace replication protein-A (RPA) from 
ssDNA and stabilizing RAD51-ssDNA filaments by blocking ATP hydrolysis. BRCA2
does not anneal ssDNA complexed with RPA, implying it does not directly function 
in repair processes that involve ssDNA annealing. Our findings show that BRCA2 is
a key mediator of homologous recombination, and they provide a molecular basis
for understanding how this DNA repair process is disrupted by BRCA2 mutations,
which lead to chromosomal instability and cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09399 
PMCID: PMC2952063
PMID: 20729832  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):612-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09411.

Two enzymes bound to one transfer RNA assume alternative conformations for
consecutive reactions.

Ito T(1), Yokoyama S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biophysics and Biochemistry, Graduate School of Science, The
University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan.

In most bacteria and all archaea, glutamyl-tRNA synthetase (GluRS) glutamylates
both tRNA(Glu) and tRNA(Gln), and then Glu-tRNA(Gln) is selectively converted to 
Gln-tRNA(Gln) by a tRNA-dependent amidotransferase. The mechanisms by which the
two enzymes recognize their substrate tRNA(s), and how they cooperate with each
other in Gln-tRNA(Gln) synthesis, remain to be determined. Here we report the
formation of the 'glutamine transamidosome' from the bacterium Thermotoga
maritima, consisting of tRNA(Gln), GluRS and the heterotrimeric amidotransferase 
GatCAB, and its crystal structure at 3.35 A resolution. The anticodon-binding
body of GluRS recognizes the common features of tRNA(Gln) and tRNA(Glu), whereas 
the tail body of GatCAB recognizes the outer corner of the L-shaped tRNA(Gln) in 
a tRNA(Gln)-specific manner. GluRS is in the productive form, as its catalytic
body binds to the amino-acid-acceptor arm of tRNA(Gln). In contrast, GatCAB is in
the non-productive form: the catalytic body of GatCAB contacts that of GluRS and 
is located near the acceptor stem of tRNA(Gln), in an appropriate site to wait
for the completion of Glu-tRNA(Gln) formation by GluRS. We identified the hinges 
between the catalytic and anticodon-binding bodies of GluRS and between the
catalytic and tail bodies of GatCAB, which allow both GluRS and GatCAB to adopt
the productive and non-productive forms. The catalytic bodies of the two enzymes 
compete for the acceptor arm of tRNA(Gln) and therefore cannot assume their
productive forms simultaneously. The transition from the present glutamylation
state, with the productive GluRS and the non-productive GatCAB, to the putative
amidation state, with the non-productive GluRS and the productive GatCAB,
requires an intermediate state with the two enzymes in their non-productive
forms, for steric reasons. The proposed mechanism explains how the transamidosome
efficiently performs the two consecutive steps of Gln-tRNA(Gln) formation, with a
low risk of releasing the unstable intermediate Glu-tRNA(Gln).

DOI: 10.1038/nature09411 
PMID: 20882017  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):591-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09385.

Polyreactivity increases the apparent affinity of anti-HIV antibodies by
heteroligation.

Mouquet H(1), Scheid JF, Zoller MJ, Krogsgaard M, Ott RG, Shukair S, Artyomov MN,
Pietzsch J, Connors M, Pereyra F, Walker BD, Ho DD, Wilson PC, Seaman MS, Eisen
HN, Chakraborty AK, Hope TJ, Ravetch JV, Wardemann H, Nussenzweig MC.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Immunology, The Rockefeller University, New York, New 
York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):537-8.

During immune responses, antibodies are selected for their ability to bind to
foreign antigens with high affinity, in part by their ability to undergo
homotypic bivalent binding. However, this type of binding is not always possible.
For example, the small number of gp140 glycoprotein spikes displayed on the
surface of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) disfavours homotypic bivalent
antibody binding. Here we show that during the human antibody response to HIV,
somatic mutations that increase antibody affinity also increase breadth and
neutralizing potency. Surprisingly, the responding naive and memory B cells
produce polyreactive antibodies, which are capable of bivalent heteroligation
between one high-affinity anti-HIV-gp140 combining site and a second low-affinity
site on another molecular structure on HIV. Although cross-reactivity to
self-antigens or polyreactivity is strongly selected against during B-cell
development, it is a common serologic feature of certain infections in humans,
including HIV, Epstein-Barr virus and hepatitis C virus. Seventy-five per cent of
the 134 monoclonal anti-HIV-gp140 antibodies cloned from six patients with high
titres of neutralizing antibodies are polyreactive. Despite the low affinity of
the polyreactive combining site, heteroligation demonstrably increases the
apparent affinity of polyreactive antibodies to HIV.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09385 
PMCID: PMC3699875
PMID: 20882016  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):583-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09402.

Decay of aftershock density with distance does not indicate triggering by dynamic
stress.

Richards-Dinger K(1), Stein RS, Toda S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of California, Riverside, California 
92521, USA. keithrd@ucr.edu

Resolving whether static or dynamic stress triggers most aftershocks and
subsequent mainshocks is essential to understand earthquake interaction and to
forecast seismic hazard. Felzer and Brodsky examined the distance distribution of
earthquakes occurring in the first five minutes after 2 ≤ M < 3 and 3 ≤ M < 4
mainshocks and found that their magnitude M ≥ 2 aftershocks showed a uniform
power-law decay with slope -1.35 out to 50 km from the mainshocks. From this they
argued that the distance decay could be explained only by dynamic triggering.
Here we propose an alternative explanation for the decay, and subject their
hypothesis to a series of tests, none of which it passes. At distances more than 
300 m from the 2 ≤ M < 3 mainshocks, the seismicity decay 5 min before the
mainshocks is indistinguishable from the decay five minutes afterwards,
indicating that the mainshocks have no effect at distances outside their static
triggering range. Omori temporal decay, the fundamental signature of aftershocks,
is absent at distances exceeding 10 km from the mainshocks. Finally, the distance
decay is found among aftershocks that occur before the arrival of the seismic
wave front from the mainshock, which violates causality. We argue that Felzer and
Brodsky implicitly assume that the first of two independent aftershocks along a
fault rupture triggers the second, and that the first of two shocks in a creep-
or intrusion-driven swarm triggers the second, when this need not be the case.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09402 
PMID: 20882015 


227. Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):579-82. doi: 10.1038/nature09398.

Vertical extension of the subglacial drainage system into basal crevasses.

Harper JT(1), Bradford JH, Humphrey NF, Meierbachtol TW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geosciences, University of Montana, Montana 59812, USA.
joel@mso.umt.edu

Water plays a first-order role in basal sliding of glaciers and ice sheets and is
often a key constituent of accelerated glacier motion. Subglacial water is known 
to occupy systems of cavities and conduits at the interface between ice and the
underlying bed surface, depending upon the history of water input and the
characteristics of the substrate. Full understanding of the extent and
configuration of basal water is lacking, however, because direct observation is
difficult. This limits our ability to simulate ice dynamics and the subsequent
impacts on sea-level rise realistically. Here we show that the subglacial
hydrological system can have a large volume of water occupying basal crevasses
that extend upward from the bed into the overlying ice. Radar and seismic imaging
combined with in situ borehole measurements collected on Bench Glacier, Alaska,
reveal numerous water-filled basal crevasses with highly transmissive connections
to the bed. Some crevasses extend many tens of metres above the bed and together 
they hold a volume of water equivalent to at least a decimetre layer covering the
bed. Our results demonstrate that the basal hydrologic system can extend high
into the overlying ice mass, where basal crevasses increase water-storage
capacity and could potentially modulate basal water pressure. Because basal
crevasses can form under commonly observed glaciological conditions, our findings
have implications for interpreting and modelling subglacial hydrologic processes 
and related sliding accelerations of glaciers and ice sheets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09398 
PMID: 20882014 


228. Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):574-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09416.

Preparation and measurement of three-qubit entanglement in a superconducting
circuit.

Dicarlo L(1), Reed MD, Sun L, Johnson BR, Chow JM, Gambetta JM, Frunzio L, Girvin
SM, Devoret MH, Schoelkopf RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA.
leonardo.dicarlo@yale.edu

Traditionally, quantum entanglement has been central to foundational discussions 
of quantum mechanics. The measurement of correlations between entangled particles
can have results at odds with classical behaviour. These discrepancies grow
exponentially with the number of entangled particles. With the ample experimental
confirmation of quantum mechanical predictions, entanglement has evolved from a
philosophical conundrum into a key resource for technologies such as quantum
communication and computation. Although entanglement in superconducting circuits 
has been limited so far to two qubits, the extension of entanglement to three,
eight and ten qubits has been achieved among spins, ions and photons,
respectively. A key question for solid-state quantum information processing is
whether an engineered system could display the multi-qubit entanglement necessary
for quantum error correction, which starts with tripartite entanglement. Here,
using a circuit quantum electrodynamics architecture, we demonstrate
deterministic production of three-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states 
with fidelity of 88 per cent, measured with quantum state tomography. Several
entanglement witnesses detect genuine three-qubit entanglement by violating
biseparable bounds by 830 ± 80 per cent. We demonstrate the first step of basic
quantum error correction, namely the encoding of a logical qubit into a manifold 
of GHZ-like states using a repetition code. The integration of this encoding with
decoding and error-correcting steps in a feedback loop will be the next step for 
quantum computing with integrated circuits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09416 
PMID: 20882013 


229. Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):570-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09418.

Generation of three-qubit entangled states using superconducting phase qubits.

Neeley M(1), Bialczak RC, Lenander M, Lucero E, Mariantoni M, O'Connell AD, Sank 
D, Wang H, Weides M, Wenner J, Yin Y, Yamamoto T, Cleland AN, Martinis JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of California, Santa Barbara, California
93106, USA.

Entanglement is one of the key resources required for quantum computation, so the
experimental creation and measurement of entangled states is of crucial
importance for various physical implementations of quantum computers. In
superconducting devices, two-qubit entangled states have been demonstrated and
used to show violations of Bell's inequality and to implement simple quantum
algorithms. Unlike the two-qubit case, where all maximally entangled two-qubit
states are equivalent up to local changes of basis, three qubits can be entangled
in two fundamentally different ways. These are typified by the states |GHZ>=
(|000+ |111>)/ sqrt [2] and |W>= (|001> + |010> + |100>)/ sqrt [3]. Here we
demonstrate the operation of three coupled superconducting phase qubits and use
them to create and measure |GHZ> and |W>states. The states are fully
characterized using quantum state tomography and are shown to satisfy
entanglement witnesses, confirming that they are indeed examples of three-qubit
entanglement and are not separable into mixtures of two-qubit entanglement.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09418 
PMID: 20882012 


230. Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):567-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09393.

Spin-imbalance in a one-dimensional Fermi gas.

Liao YA(1), Rittner AS, Paprotta T, Li W, Partridge GB, Hulet RG, Baur SK,
Mueller EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy and Rice Quantum Institute, Rice
University, Houston, Texas 77251, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):535-6.

Superconductivity and magnetism generally do not coexist. Changing the relative
number of up and down spin electrons disrupts the basic mechanism of
superconductivity, where atoms of opposite momentum and spin form Cooper pairs.
Nearly forty years ago Fulde and Ferrell and Larkin and Ovchinnikov (FFLO)
proposed an exotic pairing mechanism in which magnetism is accommodated by the
formation of pairs with finite momentum. Despite intense theoretical and
experimental efforts, however, polarized superconductivity remains largely
elusive. Unlike the three-dimensional (3D) case, theories predict that in one
dimension (1D) a state with FFLO correlations occupies a major part of the phase 
diagram. Here we report experimental measurements of density profiles of a
two-spin mixture of ultracold (6)Li atoms trapped in an array of 1D tubes (a
system analogous to electrons in 1D wires). At finite spin imbalance, the system 
phase separates with an inverted phase profile, as compared to the 3D case. In
1D, we find a partially polarized core surrounded by wings which, depending on
the degree of polarization, are composed of either a completely paired or a fully
polarized Fermi gas. Our work paves the way to direct observation and
characterization of FFLO pairing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09393 
PMID: 20882011 


231. Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):555-61. doi: 10.1038/nature09440.

Global threats to human water security and river biodiversity.

Vörösmarty CJ(1), McIntyre PB, Gessner MO, Dudgeon D, Prusevich A, Green P,
Glidden S, Bunn SE, Sullivan CA, Liermann CR, Davies PM.

Author information: 
(1)The Environmental CrossRoads Initiative, City University of New York, The City
College of New York, New York, New York 10035, USA. contact@riverthreat.net

Erratum in
    Nature.2010 Nov 11;468(7321):334.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):534-5.
    Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):173.
    Nature. 2010 Nov 11;468(7321):173.

Protecting the world's freshwater resources requires diagnosing threats over a
broad range of scales, from global to local. Here we present the first worldwide 
synthesis to jointly consider human and biodiversity perspectives on water
security using a spatial framework that quantifies multiple stressors and
accounts for downstream impacts. We find that nearly 80% of the world's
population is exposed to high levels of threat to water security. Massive
investment in water technology enables rich nations to offset high stressor
levels without remedying their underlying causes, whereas less wealthy nations
remain vulnerable. A similar lack of precautionary investment jeopardizes
biodiversity, with habitats associated with 65% of continental discharge
classified as moderately to highly threatened. The cumulative threat framework
offers a tool for prioritizing policy and management responses to this crisis,
and underscores the necessity of limiting threats at their source instead of
through costly remediation of symptoms in order to assure global water security
for both humans and freshwater biodiversity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09440 
PMID: 20882010  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):550-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09403.

Ocean nutrient ratios governed by plankton biogeography.

Weber TS(1), Deutsch C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences, University of California Los
Angeles, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA. tweber@atmos.ucla.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):538-9.

The major nutrients nitrate and phosphate have one of the strongest correlations 
in the sea, with a slope similar to the average nitrogen (N) to phosphorus (P)
content of plankton biomass (N/P = 16:1). The processes through which this global
relationship emerges despite the wide range of N/P ratios at the organism level
are not known. Here we use an ocean circulation model and observed nutrient
distributions to show that the N/P ratio of biological nutrient removal varies
across latitude in Southern Ocean surface waters, from 12:1 in the polar ocean to
20:1 in the sub-Antarctic zone. These variations are governed by regional
differences in the species composition of the plankton community. The covariation
of dissolved nitrate and phosphate is maintained by ocean circulation, which
mixes the shallow subsurface nutrients between distinct biogeographic provinces. 
Climate-driven shifts in these marine biomes may alter the mean N/P ratio and the
associated carbon export by Southern Ocean ecosystems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09403 
PMID: 20882009  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):543-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09339.

Translating cancer research into targeted therapeutics.

de Bono JS(1), Ashworth A.

Author information: 
(1)The Institute of Cancer Research, Cotswold Road, Sutton, Surrey SM2 5NG, UK.
johann.de-bono@icr.ac.uk

The emphasis in cancer drug development has shifted from cytotoxic, non-specific 
chemotherapies to molecularly targeted, rationally designed drugs promising
greater efficacy and less side effects. Nevertheless, despite some successes drug
development remains painfully slow. Here, we highlight the issues involved and
suggest ways in which this process can be improved and expedited. We envision an 
increasing shift to integrated cancer research and biomarker-driven adaptive and 
hypothesis testing clinical trials. The goal is the development of specific
cancer medicines to treat the individual patient, with treatment selection being 
driven by a detailed understanding of the genetics and biology of the patient and
their cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09339 
PMID: 20882008  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):617-21. doi: 10.1038/nature09376. Epub 2010 Sep 19.

Anisotropies in cortical tension reveal the physical basis of polarizing cortical
flows.

Mayer M(1), Depken M, Bois JS, Jülicher F, Grill SW.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics, 01307 Dresden,
Germany.

Asymmetric cell divisions are essential for the development of multicellular
organisms. To proceed, they require an initially symmetric cell to polarize. In
Caenorhabditis elegans zygotes, anteroposterior polarization is facilitated by a 
large-scale flow of the actomyosin cortex, which directs the asymmetry of the
first mitotic division. Cortical flows appear in many contexts of development,
but their underlying forces and physical principles remain poorly understood. How
actomyosin contractility and cortical tension interact to generate large-scale
flow is unclear. Here we report on the subcellular distribution of cortical
tension in the polarizing C. elegans zygote, which we determined using position- 
and direction-sensitive laser ablation. We demonstrate that cortical flow is
associated with anisotropies in cortical tension and is not driven by gradients
in cortical tension, which contradicts previous proposals. These experiments, in 
conjunction with a theoretical description of active cortical mechanics, identify
two prerequisites for large-scale cortical flow: a gradient in actomyosin
contractility to drive flow and a sufficiently large viscosity of the cortex to
allow flow to be long-ranged. We thus reveal the physical requirements of
large-scale intracellular cortical flow that ensure the efficient polarization of
the C. elegans zygote.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09376 
PMID: 20852613  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):604-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09438. Epub 2010 Sep 15.

In vivo imaging of labelled endogenous β-actin mRNA during nucleocytoplasmic
transport.

Grünwald D(1), Singer RH.

Author information: 
(1)Kavli Institute of NanoScience, Department of BioNanoScience, TU Delft,
Lorentzweg 1, 2628 CJ Delft, The Netherlands.

Export of messenger RNA occurs via nuclear pores, which are large nanomachines
with diameters of roughly 120 nm that are the only link between the nucleus and
cytoplasm. Hence, mRNA export occurs over distances smaller than the optical
resolution of conventional light microscopes. There is extensive knowledge on the
physical structure and composition of the nuclear pore complex, but transport
selectivity and the dynamics of mRNA export at nuclear pores remain unknown. Here
we developed a super-registration approach using fluorescence microscopy that can
overcome the current limitations of co-localization by means of measuring
intermolecular distances of chromatically different fluorescent molecules with
nanometre precision. With this method we achieve 20-ms time-precision and at
least 26-nm spatial precision, enabling the capture of highly transient
interactions in living cells. Using this approach we were able to spatially
resolve the kinetics of mRNA transport in mammalian cells and present a
three-step model consisting of docking (80 ms), transport (5-20 ms) and release
(80 ms), totalling 180 ± 10 ms. Notably, the translocation through the channel
was not the rate-limiting step, mRNAs can move bi-directionally in the pore
complex and not all pores are equally active.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09438 
PMCID: PMC3005609
PMID: 20844488  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):587-90. doi: 10.1038/nature09352. Epub 2010 Sep 15.

Genome-wide analysis of a long-term evolution experiment with Drosophila.

Burke MK(1), Dunham JP, Shahrestani P, Thornton KR, Rose MR, Long AD.

Author information: 
(1)Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California, Irvine, 321
Steinhaus Hall, Irvine, California 92697-2525, USA. burkem@uci.edu

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2010 Nov;11(11):746-7.

Experimental evolution systems allow the genomic study of adaptation, and so far 
this has been done primarily in asexual systems with small genomes, such as
bacteria and yeast. Here we present whole-genome resequencing data from
Drosophila melanogaster populations that have experienced over 600 generations of
laboratory selection for accelerated development. Flies in these selected
populations develop from egg to adult ∼20% faster than flies of ancestral control
populations, and have evolved a number of other correlated phenotypes. On the
basis of 688,520 intermediate-frequency, high-quality single nucleotide
polymorphisms, we identify several dozen genomic regions that show strong allele 
frequency differentiation between a pooled sample of five replicate populations
selected for accelerated development and pooled controls. On the basis of
resequencing data from a single replicate population with accelerated
development, as well as single nucleotide polymorphism data from individual flies
from each replicate population, we infer little allele frequency differentiation 
between replicate populations within a selection treatment. Signatures of
selection are qualitatively different than what has been observed in asexual
species; in our sexual populations, adaptation is not associated with 'classic'
sweeps whereby newly arising, unconditionally advantageous mutations become
fixed. More parsimonious explanations include 'incomplete' sweep models, in which
mutations have not had enough time to fix, and 'soft' sweep models, in which
selection acts on pre-existing, common genetic variants. We conclude that, at
least for life history characters such as development time, unconditionally
advantageous alleles rarely arise, are associated with small net fitness gains or
cannot fix because selection coefficients change over time.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09352 
PMID: 20844486  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):596-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09454.

Clinical efficacy of a RAF inhibitor needs broad target blockade in BRAF-mutant
melanoma.

Bollag G(1), Hirth P, Tsai J, Zhang J, Ibrahim PN, Cho H, Spevak W, Zhang C,
Zhang Y, Habets G, Burton EA, Wong B, Tsang G, West BL, Powell B, Shellooe R,
Marimuthu A, Nguyen H, Zhang KY, Artis DR, Schlessinger J, Su F, Higgins B, Iyer 
R, D'Andrea K, Koehler A, Stumm M, Lin PS, Lee RJ, Grippo J, Puzanov I, Kim KB,
Ribas A, McArthur GA, Sosman JA, Chapman PB, Flaherty KT, Xu X, Nathanson KL,
Nolop K.

Author information: 
(1)Plexxikon Inc., 91 Bolivar Drive, Berkeley, California 94710, USA.
gbollag@plexxikon.com

Comment in
    Cancer Cell. 2010 Oct 19;18(4):301-2.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2010 Nov;9(11):841.

B-RAF is the most frequently mutated protein kinase in human cancers. The finding
that oncogenic mutations in BRAF are common in melanoma, followed by the
demonstration that these tumours are dependent on the RAF/MEK/ERK pathway,
offered hope that inhibition of B-RAF kinase activity could benefit melanoma
patients. Herein, we describe the structure-guided discovery of PLX4032 (RG7204),
a potent inhibitor of oncogenic B-RAF kinase activity. Preclinical experiments
demonstrated that PLX4032 selectively blocked the RAF/MEK/ERK pathway in BRAF
mutant cells and caused regression of BRAF mutant xenografts. Toxicology studies 
confirmed a wide safety margin consistent with the high degree of selectivity,
enabling Phase 1 clinical trials using a crystalline formulation of PLX4032 (ref.
5). In a subset of melanoma patients, pathway inhibition was monitored in paired 
biopsy specimens collected before treatment initiation and following two weeks of
treatment. This analysis revealed substantial inhibition of ERK phosphorylation, 
yet clinical evaluation did not show tumour regressions. At higher drug exposures
afforded by a new amorphous drug formulation, greater than 80% inhibition of ERK 
phosphorylation in the tumours of patients correlated with clinical response.
Indeed, the Phase 1 clinical data revealed a remarkably high 81% response rate in
metastatic melanoma patients treated at an oral dose of 960 mg twice daily. These
data demonstrate that BRAF-mutant melanomas are highly dependent on B-RAF kinase 
activity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09454 
PMCID: PMC2948082
PMID: 20823850  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):600-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09285. Epub 2010 Sep 1.

Selectivity mechanism of the nuclear pore complex characterized by single cargo
tracking.

Lowe AR(1), Siegel JJ, Kalab P, Siu M, Weis K, Liphardt JT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720,
USA.

The nuclear pore complex (NPC) mediates all exchange between the cytoplasm and
the nucleus. Small molecules can passively diffuse through the NPC, whereas
larger cargos require transport receptors to translocate. How the NPC facilitates
the translocation of transport receptor/cargo complexes remains unclear. To
investigate this process, we tracked single protein-functionalized quantum dot
cargos as they moved through human NPCs. Here we show that import proceeds by
successive substeps comprising cargo capture, filtering and translocation, and
release into the nucleus. Most quantum dots are rejected at one of these steps
and return to the cytoplasm, including very large cargos that abort at a
size-selective barrier. Cargo movement in the central channel is subdiffusive and
cargos that can bind more transport receptors diffuse more freely. Without Ran
GTPase, a critical regulator of transport directionality, cargos still explore
the entire NPC, but have a markedly reduced probability of exit into the nucleus,
suggesting that NPC entry and exit steps are not equivalent and that the pore is 
functionally asymmetric to importing cargos. The overall selectivity of the NPC
seems to arise from the cumulative action of multiple reversible substeps and a
final irreversible exit step.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09285 
PMCID: PMC2948059
PMID: 20811366  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):608-11. doi: 10.1038/nature09338. Epub 2010 Aug 29.

Identification of a quality-control mechanism for mRNA 5'-end capping.

Jiao X(1), Xiang S, Oh C, Martin CE, Tong L, Kiledjian M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Neuroscience, Rutgers University, Piscataway,
New Jersey 08854, USA.

The 7-methylguanosine cap structure at the 5' end of eukaryotic messenger RNAs is
a critical determinant of their stability and translational efficiency. It is
generally believed that 5'-end capping is a constitutive process that occurs
during mRNA maturation and lacks the need for a quality-control mechanism to
ensure its fidelity. We recently reported that the yeast Rai1 protein has
pyrophosphohydrolase activity towards mRNAs lacking a 5'-end cap. Here we show
that, in vitro as well as in yeast cells, Rai1 possesses a novel decapping
endonuclease activity that can also remove the entire cap structure dinucleotide 
from an mRNA. This activity is targeted preferentially towards mRNAs with
unmethylated caps in contrast to the canonical decapping enzyme, Dcp2, which
targets mRNAs with a methylated cap. Capped but unmethylated mRNAs generated in
yeast cells with a defect in the methyltransferase gene are more stable in a
rai1-gene-disrupted background. Moreover, rai1Δ yeast cells with wild-type
capping enzymes show significant accumulation of mRNAs with 5'-end capping
defects under nutritional stress conditions of glucose starvation or amino acid
starvation. These findings provide evidence that 5'-end capping is not a
constitutive process that necessarily always proceeds to completion and
demonstrates that Rai1 has an essential role in clearing mRNAs with aberrant
5'-end caps. We propose that Rai1 is involved in an as yet uncharacterized
quality control process that ensures mRNA 5'-end integrity by an
aberrant-cap-mediated mRNA decay mechanism.


PMCID: PMC2948066
PMID: 20802481  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):562-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09321. Epub 2010 Aug 25.

Structure of RCC1 chromatin factor bound to the nucleosome core particle.

Makde RD(1), England JR, Yennawar HP, Tan S.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Eukaryotic Gene Regulation, Department of Biochemistry & Molecular 
Biology, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, 
USA.

The small GTPase Ran enzyme regulates critical eukaryotic cellular functions
including nuclear transport and mitosis through the creation of a RanGTP gradient
around the chromosomes. This concentration gradient is created by the
chromatin-bound RCC1 (regulator of chromosome condensation) protein, which
recruits Ran to nucleosomes and activates Ran's nucleotide exchange activity.
Although RCC1 has been shown to bind directly with the nucleosome, the molecular 
details of this interaction were not known. Here we determine the crystal
structure of a complex of Drosophila RCC1 and the nucleosome core particle at
2.9 Å resolution, providing an atomic view of how a chromatin protein interacts
with the histone and DNA components of the nucleosome. Our structure also
suggests that the Widom 601 DNA positioning sequence present in the nucleosomes
forms a 145-base-pair nucleosome core particle, not the expected canonical
147-base-pair particle.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09321 
PMCID: PMC3168546
PMID: 20739938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


241. Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):484-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09395.

Crystal structures of the CusA efflux pump suggest methionine-mediated metal
transport.

Long F(1), Su CC, Zimmermann MT, Boyken SE, Rajashankar KR, Jernigan RL, Yu EW.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology Interdepartmental Graduate
Program, Iowa State University, Iowa 50011, USA.

Gram-negative bacteria, such as Escherichia coli, frequently use tripartite
efflux complexes in the resistance-nodulation-cell division (RND) family to expel
various toxic compounds from the cell. The efflux system CusCBA is responsible
for extruding biocidal Cu(I) and Ag(I) ions. No previous structural information
was available for the heavy-metal efflux (HME) subfamily of the RND efflux pumps.
Here we describe the crystal structures of the inner-membrane transporter CusA in
the absence and presence of bound Cu(I) or Ag(I). These CusA structures provide
new structural information about the HME subfamily of RND efflux pumps. The
structures suggest that the metal-binding sites, formed by a three-methionine
cluster, are located within the cleft region of the periplasmic domain. This
cleft is closed in the apo-CusA form but open in the CusA-Cu(I) and CusA-Ag(I)
structures, which directly suggests a plausible pathway for ion export. Binding
of Cu(I) and Ag(I) triggers significant conformational changes in both the
periplasmic and transmembrane domains. The crystal structure indicates that CusA 
has, in addition to the three-methionine metal-binding site, four methionine
pairs-three located in the transmembrane region and one in the periplasmic
domain. Genetic analysis and transport assays suggest that CusA is capable of
actively picking up metal ions from the cytosol, using these methionine pairs or 
clusters to bind and export metal ions. These structures suggest a stepwise
shuttle mechanism for transport between these sites.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09395 
PMCID: PMC2946090
PMID: 20865003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):479-83. doi: 10.1038/nature09377.

Damage-induced phosphorylation of Sld3 is important to block late origin firing.

Lopez-Mosqueda J(1), Maas NL, Jonsson ZO, Defazio-Eli LG, Wohlschlegel J,
Toczyski DP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California, San
Francisco, San Francisco, California 94158-9001, USA.

Origins of replication are activated throughout the S phase of the cell cycle
such that some origins fire early and others fire late to ensure that each
chromosome is completely replicated in a timely fashion. However, in response to 
DNA damage or replication fork stalling, eukaryotic cells block activation of
unfired origins. Human cells derived from patients with ataxia telangiectasia are
deficient in this process due to the lack of a functional ataxia telangiectasia
mutated (ATM) kinase and elicit radioresistant DNA synthesis after
γ-irradiation(2). This effect is conserved in budding yeast, as yeast cells
lacking the related kinase Mec1 (ATM and Rad3-related (ATR in humans)) also fail 
to inhibit DNA synthesis in the presence of DNA damage. This intra-S-phase
checkpoint actively regulates DNA synthesis by inhibiting the firing of late
replicating origins, and this inhibition requires both Mec1 and the downstream
checkpoint kinase Rad53 (Chk2 in humans). However, the Rad53 substrate(s) whose
phosphorylation is required to mediate this function has remained unknown. Here
we show that the replication initiation protein Sld3 is phosphorylated by Rad53, 
and that this phosphorylation, along with phosphorylation of the Cdc7 kinase
regulatory subunit Dbf4, blocks late origin firing in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
Upon exposure to DNA-damaging agents, cells expressing non-phosphorylatable
alleles of SLD3 and DBF4 (SLD3-m25 and dbf4-m25, respectively) proceed through
the S phase faster than wild-type cells by inappropriately firing late origins of
replication. SLD3-m25 dbf4-m25 cells grow poorly in the presence of the
replication inhibitor hydroxyurea and accumulate multiple Rad52 foci. Moreover,
SLD3-m25 dbf4-m25 cells are delayed in recovering from transient blocks to
replication and subsequently arrest at the DNA damage checkpoint. These data
indicate that the intra-S-phase checkpoint functions to block late origin firing 
in adverse conditions to prevent genomic instability and maximize cell survival.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09377 
PMCID: PMC3393088
PMID: 20865002  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):452-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09348.

Fault weakening and earthquake instability by powder lubrication.

Reches Z(1), Lockner DA.

Author information: 
(1)School of Geology and Geophysics, University of Oklahoma, 100 East Boyd
Street, Norman, Oklahoma, USA. reches@ou.edu

Earthquake instability has long been attributed to fault weakening during
accelerated slip, and a central question of earthquake physics is identifying the
mechanisms that control this weakening. Even with much experimental effort, the
weakening mechanisms have remained enigmatic. Here we present evidence for
dynamic weakening of experimental faults that are sheared at velocities
approaching earthquake slip rates. The experimental faults, which were made of
room-dry, solid granite blocks, quickly wore to form a fine-grain rock powder
known as gouge. At modest slip velocities of 10-60 mm s(-1), this newly formed
gouge organized itself into a thin deforming layer that reduced the fault's
strength by a factor of 2-3. After slip, the gouge rapidly 'aged' and the fault
regained its strength in a matter of hours to days. Therefore, only newly formed 
gouge can weaken the experimental faults. Dynamic gouge formation is expected to 
be a common and effective mechanism of earthquake instability in the brittle
crust as (1) gouge always forms during fault slip; (2) fault-gouge behaves
similarly to industrial powder lubricants; (3) dynamic gouge formation explains
various significant earthquake properties; and (4) gouge lubricant can form for a
wide range of fault configurations, compositions and temperatures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09348 
PMID: 20865001 


244. Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):448-51. doi: 10.1038/nature09369.

Water and its influence on the lithosphere-asthenosphere boundary.

Green DH(1), Hibberson WO, Kovács I, Rosenthal A.

Author information: 
(1)School of Earth Sciences and Centre for Ore Deposit Studies, University of
Tasmania, Hobart 7001, Tasmania, Australia. David.H.Green@utas.edu.au

The Earth has distinctive convective behaviour, described by the plate tectonics 
model, in which lateral motion of the oceanic lithosphere of basaltic crust and
peridotitic uppermost mantle is decoupled from the underlying mechanically weaker
upper mantle (asthenosphere). The reason for differentiation at the
lithosphere-asthenosphere boundary is currently being debated with relevant
observations from geophysics (including seismology) and geochemistry (including
experimental petrology). Water is thought to have an important effect on mantle
rheology, either by weakening the crystal structure of olivine and pyroxenes by
dilute solid solution, or by causing low-temperature partial melting. Here we
present a novel experimental approach to clarify the role of water in the
uppermost mantle at pressures up to 6 GPa, equivalent to a depth of 190 km. We
found that for lherzolite in which a water-rich vapour is present, the
temperature at which a silicate melt first appears (the vapour-saturated solidus)
increases from a minimum of 970 °C at 1.5 GPa to 1,350 °C at 6 GPa. We have
measured the water content in lherzolite to be approximately 180 parts per
million, retained in nominally anhydrous minerals at 2.5 and 4 GPa at
temperatures above and below the vapour-saturated solidus. The hydrous mineral
pargasite is the main water-storage site in the uppermost mantle, and the
instability of pargasite at pressures greater than 3 GPa (equivalent to more than
about 90 km depth) causes a sharp drop in both the water-storage capacity and the
solidus temperature of fertile upper-mantle lherzolite. The presence of
interstitial melt in mantle with more than 180 parts per million of water at
pressures greater than 3 GPa alters mantle rheology and defines the
lithosphere-asthenosphere boundary. Modern asthenospheric mantle acting as the
source for mid-oceanic ridge basalts has a water content of 50-200 parts per
million (refs 3-5). We show that this matches the water content of residual
nominally anhydrous minerals after incipient melting of lherzolite at the
vapour-saturated solidus at high pressure.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09369 
PMID: 20865000 


245. Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):444-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09394.

An abrupt drop in Northern Hemisphere sea surface temperature around 1970.

Thompson DW(1), Wallace JM, Kennedy JJ, Jones PD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Atmospheric Science, Colorado State University, Fort Collins,
Colorado 80523, USA. davet@atmos.colostate.edu

The twentieth-century trend in global-mean surface temperature was not monotonic:
temperatures rose from the start of the century to the 1940s, fell slightly
during the middle part of the century, and rose rapidly from the mid-1970s
onwards. The warming-cooling-warming pattern of twentieth-century temperatures is
typically interpreted as the superposition of long-term warming due to increasing
greenhouse gases and either cooling due to a mid-twentieth century increase of
sulphate aerosols in the troposphere, or changes in the climate of the world's
oceans that evolve over decades (oscillatory multidecadal variability). Loadings 
of sulphate aerosol in the troposphere are thought to have had a particularly
important role in the differences in temperature trends between the Northern and 
Southern hemispheres during the decades following the Second World War. Here we
show that the hemispheric differences in temperature trends in the middle of the 
twentieth century stem largely from a rapid drop in Northern Hemisphere sea
surface temperatures of about 0.3 °C between about 1968 and 1972. The timescale
of the drop is shorter than that associated with either tropospheric aerosol
loadings or previous characterizations of oscillatory multidecadal variability.
The drop is evident in all available historical sea surface temperature data
sets, is not traceable to changes in the attendant metadata, and is not linked to
any known biases in surface temperature measurements. The drop is not
concentrated in any discrete region of the Northern Hemisphere oceans, but its
amplitude is largest over the northern North Atlantic.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09394 
PMID: 20864999 


246. Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):440-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09346.

Conical intersection dynamics of the primary photoisomerization event in vision.

Polli D(1), Altoè P, Weingart O, Spillane KM, Manzoni C, Brida D, Tomasello G,
Orlandi G, Kukura P, Mathies RA, Garavelli M, Cerullo G.

Author information: 
(1)IFN-CNR, Dipartimento di Fisica, Politecnico di Milano, Piazza L. da Vinci 32,
20133 Milano, Italy.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):412-3.

Ever since the conversion of the 11-cis retinal chromophore to its all-trans form
in rhodopsin was identified as the primary photochemical event in vision,
experimentalists and theoreticians have tried to unravel the molecular details of
this process. The high quantum yield of 0.65 (ref. 2), the production of the
primary ground-state rhodopsin photoproduct within a mere 200 fs (refs 3-7), and 
the storage of considerable energy in the first stable bathorhodopsin
intermediate all suggest an unusually fast and efficient photoactivated one-way
reaction. Rhodopsin's unique reactivity is generally attributed to a conical
intersection between the potential energy surfaces of the ground and excited
electronic states enabling the efficient and ultrafast conversion of photon
energy into chemical energy. But obtaining direct experimental evidence for the
involvement of a conical intersection is challenging: the energy gap between the 
electronic states of the reacting molecule changes significantly over an
ultrashort timescale, which calls for observational methods that combine high
temporal resolution with a broad spectral observation window. Here we show that
ultrafast optical spectroscopy with sub-20-fs time resolution and spectral
coverage from the visible to the near-infrared allows us to follow the dynamics
leading to the conical intersection in rhodopsin isomerization. We track coherent
wave-packet motion from the photoexcited Franck-Condon region to the photoproduct
by monitoring the loss of reactant emission and the subsequent appearance of
photoproduct absorption, and find excellent agreement between the experimental
observations and molecular dynamics calculations that involve a true electronic
state crossing. Taken together, these findings constitute the most compelling
evidence to date for the existence and importance of conical intersections in
visual photochemistry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09346 
PMID: 20864998  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):436-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09419.

Ptychographic X-ray computed tomography at the nanoscale.

Dierolf M(1), Menzel A, Thibault P, Schneider P, Kewish CM, Wepf R, Bunk O,
Pfeiffer F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics (E17), Technische Universität München, 85748 Garching,
Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):409-10.

X-ray tomography is an invaluable tool in biomedical imaging. It can deliver the 
three-dimensional internal structure of entire organisms as well as that of
single cells, and even gives access to quantitative information, crucially
important both for medical applications and for basic research. Most frequently
such information is based on X-ray attenuation. Phase contrast is sometimes used 
for improved visibility but remains significantly harder to quantify. Here we
describe an X-ray computed tomography technique that generates quantitative
high-contrast three-dimensional electron density maps from phase contrast
information without reverting to assumptions of a weak phase object or negligible
absorption. This method uses a ptychographic coherent imaging approach to record 
tomographic data sets, exploiting both the high penetration power of hard X-rays 
and the high sensitivity of lensless imaging. As an example, we present images of
a bone sample in which structures on the 100 nm length scale such as the
osteocyte lacunae and the interconnective canalicular network are clearly
resolved. The recovered electron density map provides a contrast high enough to
estimate nanoscale bone density variations of less than one per cent. We expect
this high-resolution tomography technique to provide invaluable information for
both the life and materials sciences.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09419 
PMID: 20864997  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):426-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09415.

Gut inflammation provides a respiratory electron acceptor for Salmonella.

Winter SE(1), Thiennimitr P, Winter MG, Butler BP, Huseby DL, Crawford RW,
Russell JM, Bevins CL, Adams LG, Tsolis RM, Roth JR, Bäumler AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, School of Medicine,
University of California, Davis, One Shields Avenue, Davis, California 95616,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):410-1.
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2010 Nov;8(11):758.

Salmonella enterica serotype Typhimurium (S. Typhimurium) causes acute gut
inflammation by using its virulence factors to invade the intestinal epithelium
and survive in mucosal macrophages. The inflammatory response enhances the
transmission success of S. Typhimurium by promoting its outgrowth in the gut
lumen through unknown mechanisms. Here we show that reactive oxygen species
generated during inflammation react with endogenous, luminal sulphur compounds
(thiosulphate) to form a new respiratory electron acceptor, tetrathionate. The
genes conferring the ability to use tetrathionate as an electron acceptor produce
a growth advantage for S. Typhimurium over the competing microbiota in the lumen 
of the inflamed gut. We conclude that S. Typhimurium virulence factors induce
host-driven production of a new electron acceptor that allows the pathogen to use
respiration to compete with fermenting gut microbes. Thus the ability to trigger 
intestinal inflammation is crucial for the biology of this diarrhoeal pathogen.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09415 
PMCID: PMC2946174
PMID: 20864996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):420-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09442.

Origin of the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum in gorillas.

Liu W(1), Li Y, Learn GH, Rudicell RS, Robertson JD, Keele BF, Ndjango JB, Sanz
CM, Morgan DB, Locatelli S, Gonder MK, Kranzusch PJ, Walsh PD, Delaporte E,
Mpoudi-Ngole E, Georgiev AV, Muller MN, Shaw GM, Peeters M, Sharp PM, Rayner JC, 
Hahn BH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham,
Alabama 35294, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):404-5.

Plasmodium falciparum is the most prevalent and lethal of the malaria parasites
infecting humans, yet the origin and evolutionary history of this important
pathogen remain controversial. Here we develop a single-genome amplification
strategy to identify and characterize Plasmodium spp. DNA sequences in faecal
samples from wild-living apes. Among nearly 3,000 specimens collected from field 
sites throughout central Africa, we found Plasmodium infection in chimpanzees
(Pan troglodytes) and western gorillas (Gorilla gorilla), but not in eastern
gorillas (Gorilla beringei) or bonobos (Pan paniscus). Ape plasmodial infections 
were highly prevalent, widely distributed and almost always made up of mixed
parasite species. Analysis of more than 1,100 mitochondrial, apicoplast and
nuclear gene sequences from chimpanzees and gorillas revealed that 99% grouped
within one of six host-specific lineages representing distinct Plasmodium species
within the subgenus Laverania. One of these from western gorillas comprised
parasites that were nearly identical to P. falciparum. In phylogenetic analyses
of full-length mitochondrial sequences, human P. falciparum formed a monophyletic
lineage within the gorilla parasite radiation. These findings indicate that P.
falciparum is of gorilla origin and not of chimpanzee, bonobo or ancient human
origin.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09442 
PMCID: PMC2997044
PMID: 20864995  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):415-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09351.

Small RNAs are on the move.

Chitwood DH(1), Timmermans MC.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Plant Biology, University of California at Davis, Davis, California
95616, USA.

A key feature of RNA interference is its ability to spread from cell to cell.
Such non-cell-autonomous gene silencing has been characterized extensively in
both plants and animals, but the identity of the mobile silencing signal has
remained elusive. Several recent studies now shed light on the identity of this
signal in plants, and indicate that small RNA molecules-from short-interfering
RNAs to microRNAs-are capable of moving between cells and through the
vasculature. The movement of small, 21-24-nucleotide RNA species has implications
for biological processes ranging from developmental patterning and stress
responses to epigenetic inheritance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09351 
PMID: 20864994  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):474-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09373. Epub 2010 Sep 12.

Checkpoint-dependent inhibition of DNA replication initiation by Sld3 and Dbf4
phosphorylation.

Zegerman P(1), Diffley JF.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research UK London Research Institute, Clare Hall Laboratories, South
Mimms, Hertfordshire EN6 3LD, UK.

The initiation of eukaryotic DNA replication is regulated by three protein kinase
classes: cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK), Dbf4-dependent kinase (DDK) and the DNA 
damage checkpoint kinases. CDK phosphorylation of two key initiation factors,
Sld2 and Sld3, promotes essential interactions with Dpb11 (refs 2-4), whereas DDK
acts by phosphorylating subunits of the Mcm2-7 helicase. CDK has an additional
role in replication by preventing the re-loading of Mcm2-7 during the S, G2 and M
phases, thus preventing origin re-firing and re-replication. During the G1 phase,
both CDK and DDK are downregulated, which allows origin licensing and prevents
premature replication initiation. Origin firing is also inhibited during the S
phase when DNA damage or replication fork stalling activates the checkpoint
kinases. Here we show that, analogous to the situation in the G1 phase, the
Saccharomyces cerevisiae checkpoint kinase Rad53 inhibits both CDK- and
DDK-dependent pathways, which acts redundantly to block further origin firing.
Rad53 acts on DDK directly by phosphorylating Dbf4, whereas the CDK pathway is
blocked by Rad53-mediated phosphorylation of the downstream CDK substrate, Sld3. 
This allows CDK to remain active during the S phase in the presence of DNA
damage, which is crucial to prevent re-loading of Mcm2-7 onto origins that have
already fired. Our results explain how checkpoints regulate origin firing and
demonstrate that the slowing of S phase by the 'intra-S checkpoint' is primarily 
due to the inhibition of origin firing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09373 
PMCID: PMC2948544
PMID: 20835227  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):470-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09371. Epub 2010 Sep 12.

Role of a ribosome-associated E3 ubiquitin ligase in protein quality control.

Bengtson MH(1), Joazeiro CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, CB168, 10550 North
Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Messenger RNA lacking stop codons ('non-stop mRNA') can arise from errors in gene
expression, and encode aberrant proteins whose accumulation could be deleterious 
to cellular function. In bacteria, these 'non-stop proteins' become
co-translationally tagged with a peptide encoded by ssrA/tmRNA
(transfer-messenger RNA), which signals their degradation by energy-dependent
proteases. How eukaryotic cells eliminate non-stop proteins has remained unknown.
Here we show that the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Ltn1 RING-domain-type E3 ubiquitin
ligase acts in the quality control of non-stop proteins, in a process that is
mechanistically distinct but conceptually analogous to that performed by ssrA:
Ltn1 is predominantly associated with ribosomes, and it marks nascent non-stop
proteins with ubiquitin to signal their proteasomal degradation. Ltn1-mediated
ubiquitylation of non-stop proteins seems to be triggered by their stalling in
ribosomes on translation through the poly(A) tail. The biological relevance of
this process is underscored by the finding that loss of Ltn1 function confers
sensitivity to stress caused by increased non-stop protein production. We
speculate that defective protein quality control may underlie the
neurodegenerative phenotype that results from mutation of the mouse Ltn1
homologue Listerin.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09371 
PMCID: PMC2988496
PMID: 20835226  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):460-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09386. Epub 2010 Sep 8.

A trans-acting locus regulates an anti-viral expression network and type 1
diabetes risk.

Heinig M(1), Petretto E, Wallace C, Bottolo L, Rotival M, Lu H, Li Y, Sarwar R,
Langley SR, Bauerfeind A, Hummel O, Lee YA, Paskas S, Rintisch C, Saar K, Cooper 
J, Buchan R, Gray EE, Cyster JG; Cardiogenics Consortium, Erdmann J, Hengstenberg
C, Maouche S, Ouwehand WH, Rice CM, Samani NJ, Schunkert H, Goodall AH, Schulz H,
Roider HG, Vingron M, Blankenberg S, Münzel T, Zeller T, Szymczak S, Ziegler A,
Tiret L, Smyth DJ, Pravenec M, Aitman TJ, Cambien F, Clayton D, Todd JA, Hubner
N, Cook SA.

Collaborators: Braund P, Gracey J, Krishnan U, Moore JS, Nelson CP, Pollard H,
Attwood T, Crisp-Hihn A, Foad N, Jolley J, Lloyd-Jones H, Muir D, Murray E,
O'Leary K, Rankin A, Sambrook J, Godfroy T, Brocheton J, Proust C, Schmitz G,
Heimerl S, Lugauer I, Belz S, Gulde S, Linsel-Nitschke P, Sager H, Schroeder L,
Lundmark P, Syvannen AC, Neudert J, Scholz M, Deloukas P, Gray E, Gwilliams R,
Niblett D.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Delbrück-Center for Molecular Medicine (MDC), Berlin, Germany.

Combined analyses of gene networks and DNA sequence variation can provide new
insights into the aetiology of common diseases that may not be apparent from
genome-wide association studies alone. Recent advances in rat genomics are
facilitating systems-genetics approaches. Here we report the use of integrated
genome-wide approaches across seven rat tissues to identify gene networks and the
loci underlying their regulation. We defined an interferon regulatory factor 7
(IRF7)-driven inflammatory network (IDIN) enriched for viral response genes,
which represents a molecular biomarker for macrophages and which was regulated in
multiple tissues by a locus on rat chromosome 15q25. We show that Epstein-Barr
virus induced gene 2 (Ebi2, also known as Gpr183), which lies at this locus and
controls B lymphocyte migration, is expressed in macrophages and regulates the
IDIN. The human orthologous locus on chromosome 13q32 controlled the human
equivalent of the IDIN, which was conserved in monocytes. IDIN genes were more
likely to associate with susceptibility to type 1 diabetes (T1D)-a
macrophage-associated autoimmune disease-than randomly selected immune response
genes (P = 8.85 × 10(-6)). The human locus controlling the IDIN was associated
with the risk of T1D at single nucleotide polymorphism rs9585056 (P =
7.0 × 10(-10); odds ratio, 1.15), which was one of five single nucleotide
polymorphisms in this region associated with EBI2 (GPR183) expression. These data
implicate IRF7 network genes and their regulatory locus in the pathogenesis of
T1D.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09386 
PMCID: PMC3657719
PMID: 20827270  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):456-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09389. Epub 2010 Sep 8.

Early warning signals of extinction in deteriorating environments.

Drake JM(1), Griffen BD.

Author information: 
(1)Odum School of Ecology, University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia 30602, USA.
jdrake@uga.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):411-2.

During the decline to extinction, animal populations may present dynamical
phenomena not exhibited by robust populations. Some of these phenomena, such as
the scaling of demographic variance, are related to small size whereas others
result from density-dependent nonlinearities. Although understanding the causes
of population extinction has been a central problem in theoretical biology for
decades, the ability to anticipate extinction has remained elusive. Here we argue
that the causes of a population's decline are central to the predictability of
its extinction. Specifically, environmental degradation may cause a tipping point
in population dynamics, corresponding to a bifurcation in the underlying
population growth equations, beyond which decline to extinction is almost
certain. In such cases, imminent extinction will be signalled by critical slowing
down (CSD). We conducted an experiment with replicate laboratory populations of
Daphnia magna to test this hypothesis. We show that populations crossing a
transcritical bifurcation, experimentally induced by the controlled decline in
environmental conditions, show statistical signatures of CSD after the onset of
environmental deterioration and before the critical transition. Populations in
constant environments did not have these patterns. Four statistical indicators
all showed evidence of the approaching bifurcation as early as 110 days (∼8
generations) before the transition occurred. Two composite indices improved
predictability, and comparative analysis showed that early warning signals based 
solely on observations in deteriorating environments without reference
populations for standardization were hampered by the presence of transient
dynamics before the onset of deterioration, pointing to the importance of
reliable baseline data before environmental deterioration begins. The
universality of bifurcations in models of population dynamics suggests that this 
phenomenon should be general.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09389 
PMID: 20827269  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):465-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09357. Epub 2010 Sep 5.

Oligomeric organization of the B-cell antigen receptor on resting cells.

Yang J(1), Reth M.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Biological Signalling Studies BIOSS, Albert-Ludwigs-Universität
Freiburg, Department of Molecular Immunology, Faculty of Biology,
Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg and Max Planck Institute for Immunobiology,
Stübeweg 51, 79108 Freiburg, Germany.

B lymphocytes are activated by many different antigens to produce specific
antibodies protecting higher organisms from infection. To detect its cognate
antigen, each B cell contains up to 120,000 B-cell antigen receptor (BCR)
complexes on its cell surface. How these abundant receptors stay silent on
resting B cells and how they can be activated by a molecularly diverse set of
ligands is poorly understood. Here we show, with the use of a quantitative
bifluorescence complementation assay (BiFC), that the BCR has an intrinsic
ability to form oligomers on the surface of living cells. A BCR mutant that fails
to form oligomers is more active and cannot be expressed stably on the B-cell
surface, whereas BiFC-stabilized BCR oligomers are less active and more strongly 
expressed on the surface. We propose that oligomers are the autoinhibited form of
the BCR and that it is the shift from closed BCR oligomers to clustered monomers 
that drives B-cell activation in a way that is independent of the structural
input from the antigen.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09357 
PMID: 20818374  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):430-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09380. Epub 2010 Aug 18.

Mediator and cohesin connect gene expression and chromatin architecture.

Kagey MH(1), Newman JJ, Bilodeau S, Zhan Y, Orlando DA, van Berkum NL, Ebmeier
CC, Goossens J, Rahl PB, Levine SS, Taatjes DJ, Dekker J, Young RA.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, 9 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):247.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2010 Oct 8;7(4):424-6.
    Nature. 2010 Sep 23;467(7314):406-7.

Transcription factors control cell-specific gene expression programs through
interactions with diverse coactivators and the transcription apparatus. Gene
activation may involve DNA loop formation between enhancer-bound transcription
factors and the transcription apparatus at the core promoter, but this process is
not well understood. Here we report that mediator and cohesin physically and
functionally connect the enhancers and core promoters of active genes in murine
embryonic stem cells. Mediator, a transcriptional coactivator, forms a complex
with cohesin, which can form rings that connect two DNA segments. The
cohesin-loading factor Nipbl is associated with mediator-cohesin complexes,
providing a means to load cohesin at promoters. DNA looping is observed between
the enhancers and promoters occupied by mediator and cohesin. Mediator and
cohesin co-occupy different promoters in different cells, thus generating
cell-type-specific DNA loops linked to the gene expression program of each cell.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09380 
PMCID: PMC2953795
PMID: 20720539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):352-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09375.

Formate-driven growth coupled with H(2) production.

Kim YJ(1), Lee HS, Kim ES, Bae SS, Lim JK, Matsumi R, Lebedinsky AV, Sokolova TG,
Kozhevnikova DA, Cha SS, Kim SJ, Kwon KK, Imanaka T, Atomi H, Bonch-Osmolovskaya 
EA, Lee JH, Kang SG.

Author information: 
(1)Korea Ocean Research & Development Institute, PO Box 29, Ansan 425-600, Korea.

Although a common reaction in anaerobic environments, the conversion of formate
and water to bicarbonate and H(2) (with a change in Gibbs free energy of ΔG° =
+1.3 kJ mol(-1)) has not been considered energetic enough to support growth of
microorganisms. Recently, experimental evidence for growth on formate was
reported for syntrophic communities of Moorella sp. strain AMP and a
hydrogen-consuming Methanothermobacter species and of Desulfovibrio sp. strain
G11 and Methanobrevibacter arboriphilus strain AZ. The basis of the sustainable
growth of the formate-users is explained by H(2) consumption by the methanogens, 
which lowers the H(2) partial pressure, thus making the pathway exergonic.
However, it has not been shown that a single strain can grow on formate by
catalysing its conversion to bicarbonate and H(2). Here we report that several
hyperthermophilic archaea belonging to the Thermococcus genus are capable of
formate-oxidizing, H(2)-producing growth. The actual ΔG values for the formate
metabolism are calculated to range between -8 and -20 kJ mol(-1) under the
physiological conditions where Thermococcus onnurineus strain NA1 are grown.
Furthermore, we detected ATP synthesis in the presence of formate as a sole
energy source. Gene expression profiling and disruption identified the gene
cluster encoding formate hydrogen lyase, cation/proton antiporter and formate
transporter, which were responsible for the growth of T. onnurineus NA1 on
formate. This work shows formate-driven growth by a single microorganism with
protons as the electron acceptor, and reports the biochemical basis of this
ability.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09375 
PMID: 20844539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):333-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09356.

Unexpected requirement for ELMO1 in clearance of apoptotic germ cells in vivo.

Elliott MR(1), Zheng S, Park D, Woodson RI, Reardon MA, Juncadella IJ, Kinchen
JM, Zhang J, Lysiak JJ, Ravichandran KS.

Author information: 
(1)Beirne B. Carter Center for Immunology Research, University of Virginia,
Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA.

Apoptosis and the subsequent clearance of dying cells occurs throughout
development and adult life in many tissues. Failure to promptly clear apoptotic
cells has been linked to many diseases. ELMO1 is an evolutionarily conserved
cytoplasmic engulfment protein that functions downstream of the
phosphatidylserine receptor BAI1, and, along with DOCK1 and the GTPase RAC1,
promotes internalization of the dying cells. Here we report the generation of
ELMO1-deficient mice, which we found to be unexpectedly viable and grossly
normal. However, they had a striking testicular pathology, with disrupted
seminiferous epithelium, multinucleated giant cells, uncleared apoptotic germ
cells and decreased sperm output. Subsequent in vitro and in vivo analyses
revealed a crucial role for ELMO1 in the phagocytic clearance of apoptotic germ
cells by Sertoli cells lining the seminiferous epithelium. The engulfment
receptor BAI1 and RAC1 (upstream and downstream of ELMO1, respectively) were also
important for Sertoli-cell-mediated engulfment. Collectively, these findings
uncover a selective requirement for ELMO1 in Sertoli-cell-mediated removal of
apoptotic germ cells and make a compelling case for a relationship between
engulfment and tissue homeostasis in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09356 
PMCID: PMC3773546
PMID: 20844538  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):328-32. doi: 10.1038/nature09370.

Inhibition of follicular T-helper cells by CD8(+) regulatory T cells is essential
for self tolerance.

Kim HJ(1), Verbinnen B, Tang X, Lu L, Cantor H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Immunology & AIDS, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 44
Binney Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Immunotherapy. 2011 Mar;3(3):316-7.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2010 Oct;10(10):680.

The ability to produce vigorous immune responses that spare self tissues and
organs depends on the elimination of autoreactive T and B cells. However, purging
of immature and mature self-reactive T and B cells is incomplete and may also
require the involvement of cells programmed to suppress immune responses.
Regulatory T cells (T(reg)) belonging to the CD4(+) T-cell subset may have a role
in preventing untoward inflammatory responses, but T-cell subsets programmed to
inhibit the development of autoantibody formation and
systemic-lupus-erythematosus-like disease have not yet been defined. Here we
delineate a CD8(+) regulatory T-cell lineage that is essential for the
maintenance of self tolerance and prevention of murine autoimmune disease.
Genetic disruption of the inhibitory interaction between these CD8(+) T cells and
their target Qa-1(+) follicular T-helper cells results in the development of a
lethal systemic-lupus-erythematosus-like autoimmune disease. These findings
define a sublineage of CD8 T cells programmed to suppress rather than activate
immunity that represents an essential regulatory element of the immune response
and a guarantor of self tolerance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09370 
PMCID: PMC3395240
PMID: 20844537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):323-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09347.

Notch and EGFR pathway interaction regulates neural stem cell number and
self-renewal.

Aguirre A(1), Rubio ME, Gallo V.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neuroscience Research, Children's National Medical Center,
Washington, District of Columbia 20010, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2010 Nov;11(11):731.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2010 Nov;11(11):753.

Specialized cellular microenvironments, or 'niches', modulate stem cell
properties, including cell number, self-renewal and fate decisions. In the adult 
brain, niches that maintain a source of neural stem cells (NSCs) and neural
progenitor cells (NPCs) are the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral
ventricle and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. The size of the NSC
population of the SVZ at any time is the result of several ongoing processes,
including self-renewal, cell differentiation, and cell death. Maintaining the
balance between NSCs and NPCs in the SVZ niche is critical to supply the brain
with specific neural populations, both under normal conditions or after injury. A
fundamental question relevant to both normal development and to cell-based repair
strategies in the central nervous system is how the balance of different NSC and 
NPC populations is maintained in the niche. EGFR (epidermal growth factor
receptor) and Notch signalling pathways have fundamental roles during development
of multicellular organisms. In Drosophila and in Caenorhabditis elegans these
pathways may have either cooperative or antagonistic functions. In the SVZ, Notch
regulates NSC identity and self-renewal, whereas EGFR specifically affects NPC
proliferation and migration. This suggests that interplay of these two pathways
may maintain the balance between NSC and NPC numbers. Here we show that
functional cell-cell interaction between NPCs and NSCs through EGFR and Notch
signalling has a crucial role in maintaining the balance between these cell
populations in the SVZ. Enhanced EGFR signalling in vivo results in the expansion
of the NPC pool, and reduces NSC number and self-renewal. This occurs through a
non-cell-autonomous mechanism involving EGFR-mediated regulation of Notch
signalling. Our findings define a novel interaction between EGFR and Notch
pathways in the adult SVZ, and thus provide a mechanism for NSC and NPC pool
maintenance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09347 
PMCID: PMC2941915
PMID: 20844536  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):318-22. doi: 10.1038/nature09328.

Transfusion independence and HMGA2 activation after gene therapy of human
β-thalassaemia.

Cavazzana-Calvo M(1), Payen E, Negre O, Wang G, Hehir K, Fusil F, Down J, Denaro 
M, Brady T, Westerman K, Cavallesco R, Gillet-Legrand B, Caccavelli L, Sgarra R, 
Maouche-Chrétien L, Bernaudin F, Girot R, Dorazio R, Mulder GJ, Polack A, Bank A,
Soulier J, Larghero J, Kabbara N, Dalle B, Gourmel B, Socie G, Chrétien S,
Cartier N, Aubourg P, Fischer A, Cornetta K, Galacteros F, Beuzard Y, Gluckman E,
Bushman F, Hacein-Bey-Abina S, Leboulch P.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Investigation Center in Biotherapy, Groupe Hospitalier Universitaire 
Ouest, Inserm/Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris 75015, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):277-8.

The β-haemoglobinopathies are the most prevalent inherited disorders worldwide.
Gene therapy of β-thalassaemia is particularly challenging given the requirement 
for massive haemoglobin production in a lineage-specific manner and the lack of
selective advantage for corrected haematopoietic stem cells. Compound
β(E)/β(0)-thalassaemia is the most common form of severe thalassaemia in
southeast Asian countries and their diasporas. The β(E)-globin allele bears a
point mutation that causes alternative splicing. The abnormally spliced form is
non-coding, whereas the correctly spliced messenger RNA expresses a mutated
β(E)-globin with partial instability. When this is compounded with a
non-functional β(0) allele, a profound decrease in β-globin synthesis results,
and approximately half of β(E)/β(0)-thalassaemia patients are
transfusion-dependent. The only available curative therapy is allogeneic
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation, although most patients do not have a
human-leukocyte-antigen-matched, geno-identical donor, and those who do still
risk rejection or graft-versus-host disease. Here we show that, 33 months after
lentiviral β-globin gene transfer, an adult patient with severe
β(E)/β(0)-thalassaemia dependent on monthly transfusions since early childhood
has become transfusion independent for the past 21 months. Blood haemoglobin is
maintained between 9 and 10 g dl(-1), of which one-third contains vector-encoded 
β-globin. Most of the therapeutic benefit results from a dominant, myeloid-biased
cell clone, in which the integrated vector causes transcriptional activation of
HMGA2 in erythroid cells with further increased expression of a truncated HMGA2
mRNA insensitive to degradation by let-7 microRNAs. The clonal dominance that
accompanies therapeutic efficacy may be coincidental and stochastic or result
from a hitherto benign cell expansion caused by dysregulation of the HMGA2 gene
in stem/progenitor cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09328 
PMCID: PMC3355472
PMID: 20844535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):313-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09365.

Glaciation as a destructive and constructive control on mountain building.

Thomson SN(1), Brandon MT, Tomkin JH, Reiners PW, Vásquez C, Wilson NJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geosciences, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85271, USA. 
thomson@email.arizona.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):281-2.

Theoretical analysis predicts that enhanced erosion related to late Cenozoic
global cooling can act as a first-order influence on the internal dynamics of
mountain building, leading to a reduction in orogen width and height. The
strongest response is predicted in orogens dominated by highly efficient alpine
glacial erosion, producing a characteristic pattern of enhanced erosion on the
windward flank of the orogen and maximum elevation controlled by glacier
equilibrium line altitude, where long-term glacier mass gain equals mass loss.
However, acquiring definitive field evidence of an active tectonic response to
global climate cooling has been elusive. Here we present an extensive new
low-temperature thermochronologic data set from the Patagonian Andes, a
high-latitude active orogen with a well-documented late Cenozoic tectonic,
climatic and glacial history. Data from 38° S to 49° S record a marked
acceleration in erosion 7 to 5 Myr ago coeval with the onset of major Patagonian 
glaciation and retreat of deformation from the easternmost thrust front. The
highest rates and magnitudes of erosion are restricted to the glacial equilibrium
line altitude on the windward western flank of the orogen, as predicted in models
of glaciated critical taper orogens where erosion rate is a function of ice
sliding velocity. In contrast, towards higher latitudes (49° S to 56° S) a
transition to older bedrock cooling ages signifies much reduced late Cenozoic
erosion despite dominantly glacial conditions here since the latest Miocene. The 
increased height of the orogenic divide at these latitudes (well above the
equilibrium line altitude) leads us to conclude that the southernmost Patagonian 
Andes represent the first recognized example of regional glacial protection of an
active orogen from erosion, leading to constructive growth in orogen height and
width.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09365 
PMID: 20844534 


263. Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):309-12. doi: 10.1038/nature09388.

Decreased frequency of North Atlantic polar lows associated with future climate
warming.

Zahn M(1), von Storch H.

Author information: 
(1)Environmental Systems Science Centre, University of Reading, 3 Earley Gate,
Reading, Berkshire RG6 6AL, UK. matthias.zahn@gkss.de

Every winter, the high-latitude oceans are struck by severe storms that are
considerably smaller than the weather-dominating synoptic depressions.
Accompanied by strong winds and heavy precipitation, these often explosively
developing mesoscale cyclones-termed polar lows-constitute a threat to offshore
activities such as shipping or oil and gas exploitation. Yet owing to their small
scale, polar lows are poorly represented in the observational and global
reanalysis data often used for climatological investigations of atmospheric
features and cannot be assessed in coarse-resolution global simulations of
possible future climates. Here we show that in a future anthropogenically warmed 
climate, the frequency of polar lows is projected to decline. We used a series of
regional climate model simulations to downscale a set of global climate change
scenarios from the Intergovernmental Panel of Climate Change. In this process, we
first simulated the formation of polar low systems in the North Atlantic and then
counted the individual cases. A previous study using NCEP/NCAR re-analysis data
revealed that polar low frequency from 1948 to 2005 did not systematically
change. Now, in projections for the end of the twenty-first century, we found a
significantly lower number of polar lows and a northward shift of their mean
genesis region in response to elevated atmospheric greenhouse gas concentration. 
This change can be related to changes in the North Atlantic sea surface
temperature and mid-troposphere temperature; the latter is found to rise faster
than the former so that the resulting stability is increased, hindering the
formation or intensification of polar lows. Our results provide a rare example of
a climate change effect in which a type of extreme weather is likely to decrease,
rather than increase.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09388 
PMID: 20844533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):301-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09366.

Production and application of electron vortex beams.

Verbeeck J(1), Tian H, Schattschneider P.

Author information: 
(1)Electron Microscopy for Materials Science (EMAT), University of Antwerp,
Groenenborgerlaan 171, B-2020 Antwerp, Belgium. jo.verbeeck@ua.ac.be

Vortex beams (also known as beams with a phase singularity) consist of spiralling
wavefronts that give rise to angular momentum around the propagation direction.
Vortex photon beams are widely used in applications such as optical tweezers to
manipulate micrometre-sized particles and in micro-motors to provide angular
momentum, improving channel capacity in optical and radio-wave information
transfer, astrophysics and so on. Very recently, an experimental realization of
vortex beams formed of electrons was demonstrated. Here we describe the creation 
of vortex electron beams, making use of a versatile holographic reconstruction
technique in a transmission electron microscope. This technique is a reproducible
method of creating vortex electron beams in a conventional electron microscope.
We demonstrate how they may be used in electron energy-loss spectroscopy to
detect the magnetic state of materials and describe their properties. Our results
show that electron vortex beams hold promise for new applications, in particular 
for analysing and manipulating nanomaterials, and can be easily produced.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09366 
PMID: 20844532 


265. Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):297-300. doi: 10.1038/nature09359.

Observation of spin-dependent quantum jumps via quantum dot resonance
fluorescence.

Vamivakas AN(1), Lu CY, Matthiesen C, Zhao Y, Fält S, Badolato A, Atatüre M.

Author information: 
(1)Cavendish Laboratory, University of Cambridge, JJ Thomson Avenue, Cambridge
CB3 0HE, UK. anv21@cam.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):278-9.

Reliable preparation, manipulation and measurement protocols are necessary to
exploit a physical system as a quantum bit. Spins in optically active quantum
dots offer one potential realization and recent demonstrations have shown
high-fidelity preparation and ultrafast coherent manipulation. The final
challenge-that is, single-shot measurement of the electron spin-has proved to be 
the most difficult of the three and so far only time-averaged optical
measurements have been reported. The main obstacle to optical spin readout in
single quantum dots is that the same laser that probes the spin state also flips 
the spin being measured. Here, by using a gate-controlled quantum dot molecule,
we present the ability to measure the spin state of a single electron in real
time via the intermittency of quantum dot resonance fluorescence. The quantum dot
molecule, unlike its single quantum dot counterpart, allows separate and
independent optical transitions for state preparation, manipulation and
measurement, avoiding the dilemma of relying on the same transition to address
the spin state of an electron.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09359 
PMID: 20844531 


266. Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):343-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09350. Epub 2010 Sep 5.

Phosphorylation of MLL by ATR is required for execution of mammalian S-phase
checkpoint.

Liu H(1), Takeda S, Kumar R, Westergard TD, Brown EJ, Pandita TK, Cheng EH, Hsieh
JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis,
Missouri 63110, USA.

Cell cycle checkpoints are implemented to safeguard the genome, avoiding the
accumulation of genetic errors. Checkpoint loss results in genomic instability
and contributes to the evolution of cancer. Among G1-, S-, G2- and M-phase
checkpoints, genetic studies indicate the role of an intact S-phase checkpoint in
maintaining genome integrity. Although the basic framework of the S-phase
checkpoint in multicellular organisms has been outlined, the mechanistic details 
remain to be elucidated. Human chromosome-11 band-q23 translocations disrupting
the MLL gene lead to poor prognostic leukaemias. Here we assign MLL as a novel
effector in the mammalian S-phase checkpoint network and identify checkpoint
dysfunction as an underlying mechanism of MLL leukaemias. MLL is phosphorylated
at serine 516 by ATR in response to genotoxic stress in the S phase, which
disrupts its interaction with, and hence its degradation by, the SCF(Skp2) E3
ligase, leading to its accumulation. Stabilized MLL protein accumulates on
chromatin, methylates histone H3 lysine 4 at late replication origins and
inhibits the loading of CDC45 to delay DNA replication. Cells deficient in MLL
showed radioresistant DNA synthesis and chromatid-type genomic abnormalities,
indicative of S-phase checkpoint dysfunction. Reconstitution of Mll(-/-) (Mll
also known as Mll1) mouse embryonic fibroblasts with wild-type but not S516A or
ΔSET mutant MLL rescues the S-phase checkpoint defects. Moreover, murine myeloid 
progenitor cells carrying an Mll-CBP knock-in allele that mimics human t(11;16)
leukaemia show a severe radioresistant DNA synthesis phenotype. MLL fusions
function as dominant negative mutants that abrogate the ATR-mediated
phosphorylation/stabilization of wild-type MLL on damage to DNA, and thus
compromise the S-phase checkpoint. Together, our results identify MLL as a key
constituent of the mammalian DNA damage response pathway and show that
deregulation of the S-phase checkpoint incurred by MLL translocations probably
contributes to the pathogenesis of human MLL leukaemias.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09350 
PMCID: PMC2940944
PMID: 20818375  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):305-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09405. Epub 2010 Sep 1.

High-speed graphene transistors with a self-aligned nanowire gate.

Liao L(1), Lin YC, Bao M, Cheng R, Bai J, Liu Y, Qu Y, Wang KL, Huang Y, Duan X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, Los
Angeles, California 90095, USA.

Graphene has attracted considerable interest as a potential new electronic
material. With its high carrier mobility, graphene is of particular interest for 
ultrahigh-speed radio-frequency electronics. However, conventional device
fabrication processes cannot readily be applied to produce high-speed graphene
transistors because they often introduce significant defects into the monolayer
of carbon lattices and severely degrade the device performance. Here we report an
approach to the fabrication of high-speed graphene transistors with a
self-aligned nanowire gate to prevent such degradation. A Co(2)Si-Al(2)O(3)
core-shell nanowire is used as the gate, with the source and drain electrodes
defined through a self-alignment process and the channel length defined by the
nanowire diameter. The physical assembly of the nanowire gate preserves the high 
carrier mobility in graphene, and the self-alignment process ensures that the
edges of the source, drain and gate electrodes are automatically and precisely
positioned so that no overlapping or significant gaps exist between these
electrodes, thus minimizing access resistance. It therefore allows for transistor
performance not previously possible. Graphene transistors with a channel length
as low as 140 nm have been fabricated with the highest scaled on-current
(3.32 mA μm(-1)) and transconductance (1.27 mS μm(-1)) reported so far.
Significantly, on-chip microwave measurements demonstrate that the self-aligned
devices have a high intrinsic cut-off (transit) frequency of f(T) = 100-300 GHz, 
with the extrinsic f(T) (in the range of a few gigahertz) largely limited by
parasitic pad capacitance. The reported intrinsic f(T) of the graphene
transistors is comparable to that of the very best high-electron-mobility
transistors with similar gate lengths.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09405 
PMCID: PMC2965636
PMID: 20811365  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):347-51. doi: 10.1038/nature09323. Epub 2010 Aug 25.

The structure of (CENP-A-H4)(2) reveals physical features that mark centromeres.

Sekulic N(1), Bassett EA, Rogers DJ, Black BE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of Pennsylvania, School 
of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104-6059, USA.

Centromeres are specified epigenetically, and the histone H3 variant CENP-A is
assembled into the chromatin of all active centromeres. Divergence from H3 raises
the possibility that CENP-A generates unique chromatin features to mark
physically centromere location. Here we report the crystal structure of a
subnucleosomal heterotetramer, human (CENP-A-H4)(2), that reveals three
distinguishing properties encoded by the residues that comprise the CENP-A
targeting domain (CATD; ref. 2): (1) a CENP-A-CENP-A interface that is
substantially rotated relative to the H3-H3 interface; (2) a protruding loop L1
of the opposite charge as that on H3; and (3) strong hydrophobic contacts that
rigidify the CENP-A-H4 interface. Residues involved in the CENP-A-CENP-A rotation
are required for efficient incorporation into centromeric chromatin, indicating
specificity for an unconventional nucleosome shape. DNA topological analysis
indicates that CENP-A-containing nucleosomes are octameric with conventional
left-handed DNA wrapping, in contrast to other recent proposals. Our results
indicate that CENP-A marks centromere location by restructuring the nucleosome
from within its folded histone core.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09323 
PMCID: PMC2946842
PMID: 20739937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):338-42. doi: 10.1038/nature09367. Epub 2010 Aug 15.

Comprehensive methylome map of lineage commitment from haematopoietic
progenitors.

Ji H(1), Ehrlich LI, Seita J, Murakami P, Doi A, Lindau P, Lee H, Aryee MJ,
Irizarry RA, Kim K, Rossi DJ, Inlay MA, Serwold T, Karsunky H, Ho L, Daley GQ,
Weissman IL, Feinberg AP.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Epigenetics and Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, 570 Rangos, 725 N. Wolfe St., Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):280-1.

Epigenetic modifications must underlie lineage-specific differentiation as
terminally differentiated cells express tissue-specific genes, but their DNA
sequence is unchanged. Haematopoiesis provides a well-defined model to study
epigenetic modifications during cell-fate decisions, as multipotent progenitors
(MPPs) differentiate into progressively restricted myeloid or lymphoid
progenitors. Although DNA methylation is critical for myeloid versus lymphoid
differentiation, as demonstrated by the myeloerythroid bias in Dnmt1 hypomorphs, 
a comprehensive DNA methylation map of haematopoietic progenitors, or of any
multipotent/oligopotent lineage, does not exist. Here we examined 4.6 million CpG
sites throughout the genome for MPPs, common lymphoid progenitors (CLPs), common 
myeloid progenitors (CMPs), granulocyte/macrophage progenitors (GMPs), and
thymocyte progenitors (DN1, DN2, DN3). Marked epigenetic plasticity accompanied
both lymphoid and myeloid restriction. Myeloid commitment involved less global
DNA methylation than lymphoid commitment, supported functionally by myeloid
skewing of progenitors following treatment with a DNA methyltransferase
inhibitor. Differential DNA methylation correlated with gene expression more
strongly at CpG island shores than CpG islands. Many examples of genes and
pathways not previously known to be involved in choice between lymphoid/myeloid
differentiation have been identified, such as Arl4c and Jdp2. Several
transcription factors, including Meis1, were methylated and silenced during
differentiation, indicating a role in maintaining an undifferentiated state.
Additionally, epigenetic modification of modifiers of the epigenome seems to be
important in haematopoietic differentiation. Our results directly demonstrate
that modulation of DNA methylation occurs during lineage-specific differentiation
and defines a comprehensive map of the methylation and transcriptional changes
that accompany myeloid versus lymphoid fate decisions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09367 
PMCID: PMC2956609
PMID: 20720541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):291-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09358. Epub 2010 Aug 8.

MICU1 encodes a mitochondrial EF hand protein required for Ca(2+) uptake.

Perocchi F(1), Gohil VM, Girgis HS, Bao XR, McCombs JE, Palmer AE, Mootha VK.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Human Genetic Research, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):283.

Mitochondrial calcium uptake has a central role in cell physiology by stimulating
ATP production, shaping cytosolic calcium transients and regulating cell death.
The biophysical properties of mitochondrial calcium uptake have been studied in
detail, but the underlying proteins remain elusive. Here we use an integrative
strategy to predict human genes involved in mitochondrial calcium entry based on 
clues from comparative physiology, evolutionary genomics and organelle
proteomics. RNA interference against 13 top candidates highlighted one gene,
CBARA1, that we call hereafter mitochondrial calcium uptake 1 (MICU1). Silencing 
MICU1 does not disrupt mitochondrial respiration or membrane potential but
abolishes mitochondrial calcium entry in intact and permeabilized cells, and
attenuates the metabolic coupling between cytosolic calcium transients and
activation of matrix dehydrogenases. MICU1 is associated with the mitochondrial
inner membrane and has two canonical EF hands that are essential for its
activity, indicating a role in calcium sensing. MICU1 represents the founding
member of a set of proteins required for high-capacity mitochondrial calcium
uptake. Its discovery may lead to the complete molecular characterization of
mitochondrial calcium uptake pathways, and offers genetic strategies for
understanding their contribution to normal physiology and disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09358 
PMCID: PMC2977980
PMID: 20693986  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):285-90. doi: 10.1038/nature09342.

Epigenetic memory in induced pluripotent stem cells.

Kim K(1), Doi A, Wen B, Ng K, Zhao R, Cahan P, Kim J, Aryee MJ, Ji H, Ehrlich LI,
Yabuuchi A, Takeuchi A, Cunniff KC, Hongguang H, McKinney-Freeman S, Naveiras O, 
Yoon TJ, Irizarry RA, Jung N, Seita J, Hanna J, Murakami P, Jaenisch R,
Weissleder R, Orkin SH, Weissman IL, Feinberg AP, Daley GQ.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Transplantation Program, Division of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, 
Manton Center for Orphan Disease Research, Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
Children's Hospital Boston and Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):280-1.

Somatic cell nuclear transfer and transcription-factor-based reprogramming revert
adult cells to an embryonic state, and yield pluripotent stem cells that can
generate all tissues. Through different mechanisms and kinetics, these two
reprogramming methods reset genomic methylation, an epigenetic modification of
DNA that influences gene expression, leading us to hypothesize that the resulting
pluripotent stem cells might have different properties. Here we observe that
low-passage induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) derived by factor-based
reprogramming of adult murine tissues harbour residual DNA methylation signatures
characteristic of their somatic tissue of origin, which favours their
differentiation along lineages related to the donor cell, while restricting
alternative cell fates. Such an 'epigenetic memory' of the donor tissue could be 
reset by differentiation and serial reprogramming, or by treatment of iPSCs with 
chromatin-modifying drugs. In contrast, the differentiation and methylation of
nuclear-transfer-derived pluripotent stem cells were more similar to classical
embryonic stem cells than were iPSCs. Our data indicate that nuclear transfer is 
more effective at establishing the ground state of pluripotency than factor-based
reprogramming, which can leave an epigenetic memory of the tissue of origin that 
may influence efforts at directed differentiation for applications in disease
modelling or treatment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09342 
PMCID: PMC3150836
PMID: 20644535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Nature. 2010 Sep 9;467(7312):233-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09310.

Structural basis of Na(+)-independent and cooperative substrate/product antiport 
in CaiT.

Schulze S(1), Köster S, Geldmacher U, Terwisscha van Scheltinga AC, Kühlbrandt W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Structural Biology, Max Planck Institute of Biophysics,
Max-von-Laue Strasse 3, 60438 Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

Transport of solutes across biological membranes is performed by specialized
secondary transport proteins in the lipid bilayer, and is essential for life.
Here we report the structures of the sodium-independent carnitine/butyrobetaine
antiporter CaiT from Proteus mirabilis (PmCaiT) at 2.3-A and from Escherichia
coli (EcCaiT) at 3.5-A resolution. CaiT belongs to the family of
betaine/carnitine/choline transporters (BCCT), which are mostly Na(+) or H(+)
dependent, whereas EcCaiT is Na(+) and H(+) independent. The three-dimensional
architecture of CaiT resembles that of the Na(+)-dependent transporters LeuT and 
BetP, but in CaiT a methionine sulphur takes the place of the Na(+) ion to
coordinate the substrate in the central transport site, accounting for
Na(+)-independent transport. Both CaiT structures show the fully open,
inward-facing conformation, and thus complete the set of functional states that
describe the alternating access mechanism. EcCaiT contains two bound
butyrobetaine substrate molecules, one in the central transport site, the other
in an extracellular binding pocket. In the structure of PmCaiT, a tryptophan side
chain occupies the transport site, and access to the extracellular site is
blocked. Binding of both substrates to CaiT reconstituted into proteoliposomes is
cooperative, with Hill coefficients up to 1.7, indicating that the extracellular 
site is regulatory. We propose a mechanism whereby the occupied regulatory site
increases the binding affinity of the transport site and initiates substrate
translocation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09310 
PMID: 20829798  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Nature. 2010 Sep 9;467(7312):228-32. doi: 10.1038/nature09353.

Telomeres avoid end detection by severing the checkpoint signal transduction
pathway.

Carneiro T(1), Khair L, Reis CC, Borges V, Moser BA, Nakamura TM, Ferreira MG.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciência, Oeiras 2781-901, Portugal.

Telomeres protect the normal ends of chromosomes from being recognized as
deleterious DNA double-strand breaks. Recent studies have uncovered an apparent
paradox: although DNA repair is prevented, several proteins involved in DNA
damage processing and checkpoint responses are recruited to telomeres in every
cell cycle and are required for end protection. It is currently not understood
how telomeres prevent DNA damage responses from causing permanent cell cycle
arrest. Here we show that fission yeast (Schizosaccharomyces pombe) cells lacking
Taz1, an orthologue of human TRF1 and TRF2 (ref. 2), recruit DNA repair proteins 
(Rad22(RAD52) and Rhp51(RAD51), where the superscript indicates the human
orthologue) and checkpoint sensors (RPA, Rad9, Rad26(ATRIP) and
Cut5/Rad4(TOPBP1)) to telomeres. Despite this, telomeres fail to accumulate the
checkpoint mediator Crb2(53BP1) and, consequently, do not activate Chk1-dependent
cell cycle arrest. Artificially recruiting Crb2(53BP1) to taz1Δ telomeres results
in a full checkpoint response and cell cycle arrest. Stable association of
Crb2(53BP1) to DNA double-strand breaks requires two independent histone
modifications: H4 dimethylation at lysine 20 (H4K20me2) and H2A carboxy-terminal 
phosphorylation (γH2A). Whereas γH2A can be readily detected, telomeres lack
H4K20me2, in contrast to internal chromosome locations. Blocking checkpoint
signal transduction at telomeres requires Pot1 and Ccq1, and loss of either Pot1 
or Ccq1 from telomeres leads to Crb2(53BP1) foci formation, Chk1 activation and
cell cycle arrest. Thus, telomeres constitute a chromatin-privileged region of
the chromosomes that lack essential epigenetic markers for DNA damage response
amplification and cell cycle arrest. Because the protein kinases ATM and ATR must
associate with telomeres in each S phase to recruit telomerase, exclusion of
Crb2(53BP1) has a critical role in preventing telomeres from triggering cell
cycle arrest.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09353 
PMCID: PMC3196630
PMID: 20829797  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Nature. 2010 Sep 9;467(7312):223-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09374.

HAATI survivors replace canonical telomeres with blocks of generic
heterochromatin.

Jain D(1), Hebden AK, Nakamura TM, Miller KM, Cooper JP.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research UK, London Research Institute, 44 Lincoln's Inn Fields, London
WC2A 3PX, UK.

The notion that telomeres are essential for chromosome linearity stems from the
existence of two chief dangers: inappropriate DNA damage response (DDR) reactions
that mistake natural chromosome ends for double-strand DNA breaks (DSBs), and the
progressive loss of DNA from chromosomal termini due to the end replication
problem. Telomeres avert the former peril by binding sequence-specific
end-protection factors that control the access of DDR activities. The latter
threat is tackled by recruiting telomerase, a reverse transcriptase that uses an 
integral RNA subunit to template the addition of telomere repeats to chromosome
ends. Here we describe an alternative mode of linear chromosome maintenance in
which canonical telomeres are superseded by blocks of heterochromatin. We show
that in the absence of telomerase, Schizosaccharomyces pombe cells can survive
telomere sequence loss by continually amplifying and rearranging heterochromatic 
sequences. Because the heterochromatin assembly machinery is required for this
survival mode, we have termed it 'HAATI' (heterochromatin amplification-mediated 
and telomerase-independent). HAATI uses the canonical end-protection protein Pot1
(ref. 4) and its interacting partner Ccq1 (ref. 5) to preserve chromosome
linearity. The data suggest a model in which Ccq1 is recruited by the amplified
heterochromatin and provides an anchor for Pot1, which accomplishes its
end-protection function in the absence of its cognate DNA-binding sequence. HAATI
resembles the chromosome end-maintenance strategy found in Drosophila
melanogaster, which lacks specific telomere sequences but nonetheless assembles
terminal heterochromatin structures that recruit end-protection factors. These
findings reveal a previously unrecognized mode by which cancer cells might escape
the requirement for telomerase activation, and offer a tool for studying genomes 
that sustain unusually high levels of heterochromatinization.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09374 
PMID: 20829796  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Nature. 2010 Sep 9;467(7312):218-22. doi: 10.1038/nature09324.

MEC-17 is an alpha-tubulin acetyltransferase.

Akella JS(1), Wloga D, Kim J, Starostina NG, Lyons-Abbott S, Morrissette NS,
Dougan ST, Kipreos ET, Gaertig J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular Biology, University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia 30602, 
USA.

In most eukaryotic cells, subsets of microtubules are adapted for specific
functions by post-translational modifications (PTMs) of tubulin subunits.
Acetylation of the epsilon-amino group of K40 on alpha-tubulin is a conserved PTM
on the luminal side of microtubules that was discovered in the flagella of
Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. Studies on the significance of microtubule acetylation
have been limited by the undefined status of the alpha-tubulin acetyltransferase.
Here we show that MEC-17, a protein related to the Gcn5 histone
acetyltransferases and required for the function of touch receptor neurons in
Caenorhabditis elegans, acts as a K40-specific acetyltransferase for
alpha-tubulin. In vitro, MEC-17 exclusively acetylates K40 of alpha-tubulin.
Disruption of the Tetrahymena MEC-17 gene phenocopies the K40R alpha-tubulin
mutation and makes microtubules more labile. Depletion of MEC-17 in zebrafish
produces phenotypes consistent with neuromuscular defects. In C. elegans, MEC-17 
and its paralogue W06B11.1 are redundantly required for acetylation of MEC-12
alpha-tubulin, and contribute to the function of touch receptor neurons partly
via MEC-12 acetylation and partly via another function, possibly by acetylating
another protein. In summary, we identify MEC-17 as an enzyme that acetylates the 
K40 residue of alpha-tubulin, the only PTM known to occur on the luminal surface 
of microtubules.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09324 
PMCID: PMC2938957
PMID: 20829795  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Nature. 2010 Sep 9;467(7312):214-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09337.

A cryptic sensor for HIV-1 activates antiviral innate immunity in dendritic
cells.

Manel N(1), Hogstad B, Wang Y, Levy DE, Unutmaz D, Littman DR.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Pathogenesis Program, The Kimmel Center for Biology and Medicine of 
the Skirball Institute, New York University School of Medicine, New York, New
York 10016, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):424.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2010 Oct;10(10):678.

Dendritic cells serve a key function in host defence, linking innate detection of
microbes to activation of pathogen-specific adaptive immune responses. Whether
there is cell-intrinsic recognition of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) by host
innate pattern-recognition receptors and subsequent coupling to antiviral T-cell 
responses is not yet known. Dendritic cells are largely resistant to infection
with HIV-1, but facilitate infection of co-cultured T-helper cells through a
process of trans-enhancement. Here we show that, when dendritic cell resistance
to infection is circumvented, HIV-1 induces dendritic cell maturation, an
antiviral type I interferon response and activation of T cells. This innate
response is dependent on the interaction of newly synthesized HIV-1 capsid with
cellular cyclophilin A (CYPA) and the subsequent activation of the transcription 
factor IRF3. Because the peptidylprolyl isomerase CYPA also interacts with HIV-1 
capsid to promote infectivity, our results indicate that capsid conformation has 
evolved under opposing selective pressures for infectivity versus furtiveness.
Thus, a cell-intrinsic sensor for HIV-1 exists in dendritic cells and mediates an
antiviral immune response, but it is not typically engaged owing to the absence
of dendritic cell infection. The virulence of HIV-1 may be related to evasion of 
this response, the manipulation of which may be necessary to generate an
effective HIV-1 vaccine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09337 
PMCID: PMC3051279
PMID: 20829794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Nature. 2010 Sep 9;467(7312):203-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09181.

A bizarre, humped Carcharodontosauria (Theropoda) from the lower cretaceous of
Spain.

Ortega F(1), Escaso F, Sanz JL.

Author information: 
(1)Grupo de Biología, Departamento de Física Matemática y de Fluidos, Facultad de
Ciencias, Universidad Nacional de Educación a Distancia, Paseo Senda del Rey 9,
28040 Madrid, Spain. fortega@ccia.uned.es

Carcharodontosaurs were the largest predatory dinosaurs, and their early
evolutionary history seems to be more intricate than was previously thought.
Until recently, carcharodontosaurs were restricted to a group of large theropods 
inhabiting the Late Cretaceous Gondwanan land masses, but in the last few years
Laurasian evidence has been causing a reevaluation of their initial
diversification. Here we describe an almost complete and exquisitely preserved
skeleton of a medium-sized (roughly six metres long) theropod from the Lower
Cretaceous series (Barremian stage) Konservat-Lagerstätte of Las Hoyas in Cuenca,
Spain. Cladistic analysis supports the idea that the new taxon Concavenator
corcovatus is a primitive member of Carcharodontosauria, exhibiting two unusual
features: elongation of the neurapophyses of two presacral vertebrae forming a
pointed, hump-like structure and a series of small bumps on the ulna. We think
that these bumps are homologous to quill knobs present on some modern birds; the 
knobs are related to the insertion area of follicular ligaments that anchor the
roots of the flight feathers (remiges) to the arm. We propose that Concavenator
has integumentary follicular structures inserted on the ulna, as in modern birds.
Because scales do not have follicles, we consider the structures anchored to the 
Concavenator arms to be non-scale skin appendages homologous to the feathers of
modern birds. If this is true, then the phylogenetic bracket for the presence of 
non-scale skin structures homologous to feathers in theropod dinosaurs would be
extended to the Neotetanurae, enlarging the scope for explaining the origin of
feathers in theropods.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09181 
PMID: 20829793  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Nature. 2010 Sep 9;467(7312):198-202. doi: 10.1038/nature09349.

2010 Maule earthquake slip correlates with pre-seismic locking of Andean
subduction zone.

Moreno M(1), Rosenau M, Oncken O.

Author information: 
(1)Helmholtz Centre Potsdam, GFZ German Research Centre for Geosciences,
Telegrafenberg, Potsdam 14473, Germany.

The magnitude-8.8 Maule (Chile) earthquake of 27 February 2010 ruptured a segment
of the Andean subduction zone megathrust that has been suspected to be of high
seismic potential. It is the largest earthquake to rupture a mature seismic gap
in a subduction zone that has been monitored with a dense space-geodetic network 
before the event. This provides an image of the pre-seismically locked state of
the plate interface of unprecedentedly high resolution, allowing for an
assessment of the spatial correlation of interseismic locking with coseismic
slip. Pre-seismic locking might be used to anticipate future ruptures in many
seismic gaps, given the fundamental assumption that locking and slip are similar.
This hypothesis, however, could not be tested without the occurrence of the first
gap-filling earthquake. Here we show evidence that the 2010 Maule earthquake slip
distribution correlates closely with the patchwork of interseismic locking
distribution as derived by inversion of global positioning system (GPS)
observations during the previous decade. The earthquake nucleated in a region of 
high locking gradient and released most of the stresses accumulated in the area
since the last major event in 1835. Two regions of high seismic slip (asperities)
appeared to be nearly fully locked before the earthquake. Between these
asperities, the rupture bridged a zone that was creeping interseismically with
consistently low coseismic slip. The rupture stopped in areas that were highly
locked before the earthquake but where pre-stress had been significantly reduced 
by overlapping twentieth-century earthquakes. Our work suggests that coseismic
slip heterogeneity at the scale of single asperities should indicate the seismic 
potential of future great earthquakes, which thus might be anticipated by
geodetic observations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09349 
PMID: 20829792 


279. Nature. 2010 Sep 9;467(7312):194-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09313.

Glacier retreat in New Zealand during the Younger Dryas stadial.

Kaplan MR(1), Schaefer JM, Denton GH, Barrell DJ, Chinn TJ, Putnam AE, Andersen
BG, Finkel RC, Schwartz R, Doughty AM.

Author information: 
(1)Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Geochemistry, Palisades, New York 10964,
USA. mkaplan@ldeo.columbia.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 9;467(7312):160-1.

Millennial-scale cold reversals in the high latitudes of both hemispheres
interrupted the last transition from full glacial to interglacial climate
conditions. The presence of the Younger Dryas stadial (approximately 12.9 to
approximately 11.7 kyr ago) is established throughout much of the Northern
Hemisphere, but the global timing, nature and extent of the event are not well
established. Evidence in mid to low latitudes of the Southern Hemisphere, in
particular, has remained perplexing. The debate has in part focused on the
behaviour of mountain glaciers in New Zealand, where previous research has found 
equivocal evidence for the precise timing of increased or reduced ice extent. The
interhemispheric behaviour of the climate system during the Younger Dryas thus
remains an open question, fundamentally limiting our ability to formulate
realistic models of global climate dynamics for this time period. Here we show
that New Zealand's glaciers retreated after approximately 13 kyr bp, at the onset
of the Younger Dryas, and in general over the subsequent approximately 1.5-kyr
period. Our evidence is based on detailed landform mapping, a high-precision
(10)Be chronology and reconstruction of former ice extents and snow lines from
well-preserved cirque moraines. Our late-glacial glacier chronology matches
climatic trends in Antarctica, Southern Ocean behaviour and variations in
atmospheric CO(2). The evidence points to a distinct warming of the southern
mid-latitude atmosphere during the Younger Dryas and a close coupling between New
Zealand's cryosphere and southern high-latitude climate. These findings support
the hypothesis that extensive winter sea ice and curtailed meridional ocean
overturning in the North Atlantic led to a strong interhemispheric thermal
gradient during late-glacial times, in turn leading to increased upwelling and
CO(2) release from the Southern Ocean, thereby triggering Southern Hemisphere
warming during the northern Younger Dryas.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09313 
PMID: 20829791 


280. Nature. 2010 Sep 9;467(7312):185-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09330.

High-resolution tunnelling spectroscopy of a graphene quartet.

Song YJ(1), Otte AF, Kuk Y, Hu Y, Torrance DB, First PN, de Heer WA, Min H, Adam 
S, Stiles MD, MacDonald AH, Stroscio JA.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Nanoscale Science and Technology, NIST, Gaithersburg, Maryland
20899, USA.

Electrons in a single sheet of graphene behave quite differently from those in
traditional two-dimensional electron systems. Like massless relativistic
particles, they have linear dispersion and chiral eigenstates. Furthermore, two
sets of electrons centred at different points in reciprocal space ('valleys')
have this dispersion, giving rise to valley degeneracy. The symmetry between
valleys, together with spin symmetry, leads to a fourfold quartet degeneracy of
the Landau levels, observed as peaks in the density of states produced by an
applied magnetic field. Recent electron transport measurements have observed the 
lifting of the fourfold degeneracy in very large applied magnetic fields,
separating the quartet into integer and, more recently, fractional levels. The
exact nature of the broken-symmetry states that form within the Landau levels and
lift these degeneracies is unclear at present and is a topic of intense
theoretical debate. Here we study the detailed features of the four quantum
states that make up a degenerate graphene Landau level. We use high-resolution
scanning tunnelling spectroscopy at temperatures as low as 10 mK in an applied
magnetic field to study the top layer of multilayer epitaxial graphene. When the 
Fermi level lies inside the fourfold Landau manifold, significant electron
correlation effects result in an enhanced valley splitting for even filling
factors, and an enhanced electron spin splitting for odd filling factors. Most
unexpectedly, we observe states with Landau level filling factors of 7/2, 9/2 and
11/2, suggestive of new many-body states in graphene.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09330 
PMID: 20829790 


281. Nature. 2010 Sep 9;467(7312):179-84. doi: 10.1038/nature09299.

Enhancement of proteasome activity by a small-molecule inhibitor of USP14.

Lee BH(1), Lee MJ, Park S, Oh DC, Elsasser S, Chen PC, Gartner C, Dimova N, Hanna
J, Gygi SP, Wilson SM, King RW, Finley D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, 240 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Proteasomes, the primary mediators of ubiquitin-protein conjugate degradation,
are regulated through complex and poorly understood mechanisms. Here we show that
USP14, a proteasome-associated deubiquitinating enzyme, can inhibit the
degradation of ubiquitin-protein conjugates both in vitro and in cells. A
catalytically inactive variant of USP14 has reduced inhibitory activity,
indicating that inhibition is mediated by trimming of the ubiquitin chain on the 
substrate. A high-throughput screen identified a selective small-molecule
inhibitor of the deubiquitinating activity of human USP14. Treatment of cultured 
cells with this compound enhanced degradation of several proteasome substrates
that have been implicated in neurodegenerative disease. USP14 inhibition
accelerated the degradation of oxidized proteins and enhanced resistance to
oxidative stress. Enhancement of proteasome activity through inhibition of USP14 
may offer a strategy to reduce the levels of aberrant proteins in cells under
proteotoxic stress.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09299 
PMCID: PMC2939003
PMID: 20829789  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Nature. 2010 Sep 9;467(7312):174-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09333.

Fundamental limits on the suppression of molecular fluctuations.

Lestas I(1), Vinnicombe G, Paulsson J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Engineering, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 1PZ, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 9;467(7312):163-4.

Negative feedback is common in biological processes and can increase a system's
stability to internal and external perturbations. But at the molecular level,
control loops always involve signalling steps with finite rates for random births
and deaths of individual molecules. Here we show, by developing mathematical
tools that merge control and information theory with physical chemistry, that
seemingly mild constraints on these rates place severe limits on the ability to
suppress molecular fluctuations. Specifically, the minimum standard deviation in 
abundances decreases with the quartic root of the number of signalling events,
making it extremely expensive to increase accuracy. Our results are formulated in
terms of experimental observables, and existing data show that cells use brute
force when noise suppression is essential; for example, regulatory genes are
transcribed tens of thousands of times per cell cycle. The theory challenges
conventional beliefs about biochemical accuracy and presents an approach to the
rigorous analysis of poorly characterized biological systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09333 
PMCID: PMC2996232
PMID: 20829788  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Nature. 2010 Sep 9;467(7312):167-73. doi: 10.1038/nature09326.

Functional roles for noise in genetic circuits.

Eldar A(1), Elowitz MB.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Caltech M/C 114-96, 1200 East California
Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

The genetic circuits that regulate cellular functions are subject to stochastic
fluctuations, or 'noise', in the levels of their components. Noise, far from just
a nuisance, has begun to be appreciated for its essential role in key cellular
activities. Noise functions in both microbial and eukaryotic cells, in
multicellular development, and in evolution. It enables coordination of gene
expression across large regulons, as well as probabilistic differentiation
strategies that function across cell populations. At the longest timescales,
noise may facilitate evolutionary transitions. Here we review examples and
emerging principles that connect noise, the architecture of the gene circuits in 
which it is present, and the biological functions it enables. We further indicate
some of the important challenges and opportunities going forward.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09326 
PMCID: PMC4100692
PMID: 20829787  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Nature. 2010 Sep 9;467(7312):207-10. doi: 10.1038/nature09327. Epub 2010 Aug 22.

Whole-exome sequencing identifies recessive WDR62 mutations in severe brain
malformations.

Bilgüvar K(1), Oztürk AK, Louvi A, Kwan KY, Choi M, Tatli B, Yalnizoğlu D, Tüysüz
B, Cağlayan AO, Gökben S, Kaymakçalan H, Barak T, Bakircioğlu M, Yasuno K, Ho W, 
Sanders S, Zhu Y, Yilmaz S, Dinçer A, Johnson MH, Bronen RA, Koçer N, Per H, Mane
S, Pamir MN, Yalçinkaya C, Kumandaş S, Topçu M, Ozmen M, Sestan N, Lifton RP,
State MW, Günel M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06510, USA.

Comment in
    Clin Genet. 2011 Feb;79(2):132-3.

The development of the human cerebral cortex is an orchestrated process involving
the generation of neural progenitors in the periventricular germinal zones, cell 
proliferation characterized by symmetric and asymmetric mitoses, followed by
migration of post-mitotic neurons to their final destinations in six highly
ordered, functionally specialized layers. An understanding of the molecular
mechanisms guiding these intricate processes is in its infancy, substantially
driven by the discovery of rare mutations that cause malformations of cortical
development. Mapping of disease loci in putative Mendelian forms of malformations
of cortical development has been hindered by marked locus heterogeneity, small
kindred sizes and diagnostic classifications that may not reflect molecular
pathogenesis. Here we demonstrate the use of whole-exome sequencing to overcome
these obstacles by identifying recessive mutations in WD repeat domain 62 (WDR62)
as the cause of a wide spectrum of severe cerebral cortical malformations
including microcephaly, pachygyria with cortical thickening as well as hypoplasia
of the corpus callosum. Some patients with mutations in WDR62 had evidence of
additional abnormalities including lissencephaly, schizencephaly, polymicrogyria 
and, in one instance, cerebellar hypoplasia, all traits traditionally regarded as
distinct entities. In mice and humans, WDR62 transcripts and protein are enriched
in neural progenitors within the ventricular and subventricular zones. Expression
of WDR62 in the neocortex is transient, spanning the period of embryonic
neurogenesis. Unlike other known microcephaly genes, WDR62 does not apparently
associate with centrosomes and is predominantly nuclear in localization. These
findings unify previously disparate aspects of cerebral cortical development and 
highlight the use of whole-exome sequencing to identify disease loci in settings 
in which traditional methods have proved challenging.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09327 
PMCID: PMC3129007
PMID: 20729831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Nature. 2010 Sep 9;467(7312):190-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09379. Epub 2010 Aug 18.

Graphene as a subnanometre trans-electrode membrane.

Garaj S(1), Hubbard W, Reina A, Kong J, Branton D, Golovchenko JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138,
USA. sgaraj@fas.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 9;467(7312):164-5.

Isolated, atomically thin conducting membranes of graphite, called graphene, have
recently been the subject of intense research with the hope that practical
applications in fields ranging from electronics to energy science will emerge.
The atomic thinness, stability and electrical sensitivity of graphene motivated
us to investigate the potential use of graphene membranes and graphene nanopores 
to characterize single molecules of DNA in ionic solution. Here we show that when
immersed in an ionic solution, a layer of graphene becomes a new electrochemical 
structure that we call a trans-electrode. The trans-electrode's unique properties
are the consequence of the atomic-scale proximity of its two opposing
liquid-solid interfaces together with graphene's well known in-plane
conductivity. We show that several trans-electrode properties are revealed by
ionic conductance measurements on a graphene membrane that separates two aqueous 
ionic solutions. Although our membranes are only one to two atomic layers thick, 
we find they are remarkable ionic insulators with a very small stable conductance
that depends on the ion species in solution. Electrical measurements on graphene 
membranes in which a single nanopore has been drilled show that the membrane's
effective insulating thickness is less than one nanometre. This small effective
thickness makes graphene an ideal substrate for very high resolution, high
throughput nanopore-based single-molecule detectors. The sensitivity of
graphene's in-plane electronic conductivity to its immediate surface environment 
and trans-membrane solution potentials will offer new insights into atomic
surface processes and sensor development opportunities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09379 
PMCID: PMC2956266
PMID: 20720538  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Nature. 2010 Sep 9;467(7312):211-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09368. Epub 2010 Aug 11.

Production of p53 gene knockout rats by homologous recombination in embryonic
stem cells.

Tong C(1), Li P, Wu NL, Yan Y, Ying QL.

Author information: 
(1)Eli and Edythe Broad Center for Regenerative Medicine and Stem Cell Research
at USC, Department of Cell and Neurobiology, Keck School of Medicine, University 
of Southern California, Los Angeles, California 90033, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 9;467(7312):161-3.

The use of homologous recombination to modify genes in embryonic stem (ES) cells 
provides a powerful means to elucidate gene function and create disease models.
Application of this technology to engineer genes in rats has not previously been 
possible because of the absence of germline-competent ES cells in this species.
We have recently established authentic rat ES cells. Here we report the
generation of gene knockout rats using the ES-cell-based gene targeting
technology. We designed a targeting vector to disrupt the tumour suppressor gene 
p53 (also known as Tp53) in rat ES cells by means of homologous recombination.
p53 gene-targeted rat ES cells can be routinely generated. Furthermore, the p53
gene-targeted mutation in the rat ES-cell genome can transmit through the germ
line via ES-cell rat chimaeras to create p53 gene knockout rats. The rat is the
most widely used animal model in biological research. The establishment of gene
targeting technology in rat ES cells, in combination with advances in genomics
and the vast amount of research data on physiology and pharmacology in this
species, now provide a powerful new platform for the study of human disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09368 
PMCID: PMC2937076
PMID: 20703227  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):112-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09355.

DNA end resection by Dna2-Sgs1-RPA and its stimulation by Top3-Rmi1 and
Mre11-Rad50-Xrs2.

Cejka P(1), Cannavo E, Polaczek P, Masuda-Sasa T, Pokharel S, Campbell JL,
Kowalczykowski SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of California, Davis, Davis, California
95616-8665, USA.

The repair of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) by homologous recombination
requires processing of broken ends. For repair to start, the DSB must first be
resected to generate a 3'-single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) overhang, which becomes a
substrate for the DNA strand exchange protein, Rad51 (ref. 1). Genetic studies
have implicated a multitude of proteins in the process, including helicases,
nucleases and topoisomerases. Here we biochemically reconstitute elements of the 
resection process and reveal that it requires the nuclease Dna2, the RecQ-family 
helicase Sgs1 and the ssDNA-binding protein replication protein-A (RPA). We
establish that Dna2, Sgs1 and RPA constitute a minimal protein complex capable of
DNA resection in vitro. Sgs1 helicase unwinds the DNA to produce an intermediate 
that is digested by Dna2, and RPA stimulates DNA unwinding by Sgs1 in a
species-specific manner. Interestingly, RPA is also required both to direct Dna2 
nucleolytic activity to the 5'-terminated strand of the DNA break and to inhibit 
3' to 5' degradation by Dna2, actions that generate and protect the 3'-ssDNA
overhang, respectively. In addition to this core machinery, we establish that
both the topoisomerase 3 (Top3) and Rmi1 complex and the Mre11-Rad50-Xrs2 complex
(MRX) have important roles as stimulatory components. Stimulation of end
resection by the Top3-Rmi1 heterodimer and the MRX proteins is by complex
formation with Sgs1 (refs 5, 6), which unexpectedly stimulates DNA unwinding. We 
suggest that Top3-Rmi1 and MRX are important for recruitment of the Sgs1-Dna2
complex to DSBs. Our experiments provide a mechanistic framework for
understanding the initial steps of recombinational DNA repair in eukaryotes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09355 
PMCID: PMC3089589
PMID: 20811461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):108-11. doi: 10.1038/nature09318.

Mechanism of the ATP-dependent DNA end-resection machinery from Saccharomyces
cerevisiae.

Niu H(1), Chung WH, Zhu Z, Kwon Y, Zhao W, Chi P, Prakash R, Seong C, Liu D, Lu
L, Ira G, Sung P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

If not properly processed and repaired, DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) can give 
rise to deleterious chromosome rearrangements, which could ultimately lead to the
tumour phenotype. DSB ends are resected in a 5' to 3' fashion in cells, to yield 
single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) for the recruitment of factors critical for DNA
damage checkpoint activation and repair by homologous recombination. The
resection process involves redundant pathways consisting of nucleases, DNA
helicases and associated proteins. Being guided by recent genetic studies, we
have reconstituted the first eukaryotic ATP-dependent DNA end-resection machinery
comprising the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Mre11-Rad50-Xrs2 (MRX) complex, the
Sgs1-Top3-Rmi1 complex, Dna2 protein and the heterotrimeric ssDNA-binding protein
RPA. Here we show that DNA strand separation during end resection is mediated by 
the Sgs1 helicase function, in a manner that is enhanced by Top3-Rmi1 and MRX. In
congruence with genetic observations, although the Dna2 nuclease activity is
critical for resection, the Mre11 nuclease activity is dispensable. By examining 
the top3 Y356F allele and its encoded protein, we provide evidence that the
topoisomerase activity of Top3, although critical for the suppression of
crossover recombination, is not needed for resection either in cells or in the
reconstituted system. Our results also unveil a multifaceted role of RPA, in the 
sequestration of ssDNA generated by DNA unwinding, enhancement of 5' strand
incision, and protection of the 3' strand. Our reconstituted system should serve 
as a useful model for delineating the mechanistic intricacy of the DNA break
resection process in eukaryotes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09318 
PMCID: PMC2955862
PMID: 20811460  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):103-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09322.

Genome-wide measurement of RNA secondary structure in yeast.

Kertesz M(#)(1), Wan Y(#)(2), Mazor E(1), Rinn JL(3), Nutter RC(4), Chang HY(2), 
Segal E(1)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics, Weizmann Institute of
Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel.
(2)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Program in Epithelial Biology, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
(3)The Broad Institute of Harvard and Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, MA 02142, USA.
(4)Life Technologies, Foster City, CA 94404, USA.
(5)Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot
76100, Israel.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nat Biotechnol. 2010 Nov;28(11):1178-9.

The structures of RNA molecules are often important for their function and
regulation, yet there are no experimental techniques for genome-scale measurement
of RNA structure. Here we describe a novel strategy termed parallel analysis of
RNA structure (PARS), which is based on deep sequencing fragments of RNAs that
were treated with structure-specific enzymes, thus providing simultaneous in
vitro profiling of the secondary structure of thousands of RNA species at single 
nucleotide resolution. We apply PARS to profile the secondary structure of the
messenger RNAs (mRNAs) of the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and obtain
structural profiles for over 3,000 distinct transcripts. Analysis of these
profiles reveals several RNA structural properties of yeast transcripts,
including the existence of more secondary structure over coding regions compared 
with untranslated regions, a three-nucleotide periodicity of secondary structure 
across coding regions and an anti-correlation between the efficiency with which
an mRNA is translated and the structure over its translation start site. PARS is 
readily applicable to other organisms and to profiling RNA structure in diverse
conditions, thus enabling studies of the dynamics of secondary structure at a
genomic scale.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09322 
PMCID: PMC3847670
PMID: 20811459  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):95-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09325.

Gamma-secretase activating protein is a therapeutic target for Alzheimer's
disease.

He G(1), Luo W, Li P, Remmers C, Netzer WJ, Hendrick J, Bettayeb K, Flajolet M,
Gorelick F, Wennogle LP, Greengard P.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience, The Rockefeller University,
1230 York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):36-7.

Accumulation of neurotoxic amyloid-beta is a major hallmark of Alzheimer's
disease. Formation of amyloid-beta is catalysed by gamma-secretase, a protease
with numerous substrates. Little is known about the molecular mechanisms that
confer substrate specificity on this potentially promiscuous enzyme. Knowledge of
the mechanisms underlying its selectivity is critical for the development of
clinically effective gamma-secretase inhibitors that can reduce amyloid-beta
formation without impairing cleavage of other gamma-secretase substrates,
especially Notch, which is essential for normal biological functions. Here we
report the discovery of a novel gamma-secretase activating protein (GSAP) that
drastically and selectively increases amyloid-beta production through a mechanism
involving its interactions with both gamma-secretase and its substrate, the
amyloid precursor protein carboxy-terminal fragment (APP-CTF). GSAP does not
interact with Notch, nor does it affect its cleavage. Recombinant GSAP stimulates
amyloid-beta production in vitro. Reducing GSAP concentrations in cell lines
decreases amyloid-beta concentrations. Knockdown of GSAP in a mouse model of
Alzheimer's disease reduces levels of amyloid-beta and plaque development. GSAP
represents a type of gamma-secretase regulator that directs enzyme specificity by
interacting with a specific substrate. We demonstrate that imatinib, an
anticancer drug previously found to inhibit amyloid-beta formation without
affecting Notch cleavage, achieves its amyloid-beta-lowering effect by preventing
GSAP interaction with the gamma-secretase substrate, APP-CTF. Thus, GSAP can
serve as an amyloid-beta-lowering therapeutic target without affecting other key 
functions of gamma-secretase.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09325 
PMCID: PMC2936959
PMID: 20811458  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):91-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09334.

A spindle-independent cleavage furrow positioning pathway.

Cabernard C(1), Prehoda KE, Doe CQ.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon 97403,
USA.

The mitotic spindle determines the cleavage furrow site during metazoan cell
division, but whether other mechanisms exist remains unknown. Here we identify a 
spindle-independent mechanism for cleavage furrow positioning in Drosophila
neuroblasts. We show that early and late furrow proteins (Pavarotti, Anillin, and
Myosin) are localized to the neuroblast basal cortex at anaphase onset by a Pins 
cortical polarity pathway, and can induce a basally displaced furrow even in the 
complete absence of a mitotic spindle. Rotation or displacement of the spindle
results in two furrows: an early polarity-induced basal furrow and a later
spindle-induced furrow. This spindle-independent cleavage furrow mechanism may be
relevant to other highly polarized mitotic cells, such as mammalian neural
progenitors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09334 
PMCID: PMC4028831
PMID: 20811457  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):82-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09354.

Bacterial charity work leads to population-wide resistance.

Lee HH(1), Molla MN, Cantor CR, Collins JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Center for BioDynamics, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):34-5.

Bacteria show remarkable adaptability in the face of antibiotic therapeutics.
Resistance alleles in drug target-specific sites and general stress responses
have been identified in individual end-point isolates. Less is known, however,
about the population dynamics during the development of antibiotic-resistant
strains. Here we follow a continuous culture of Escherichia coli facing
increasing levels of antibiotic and show that the vast majority of isolates are
less resistant than the population as a whole. We find that the few highly
resistant mutants improve the survival of the population's less resistant
constituents, in part by producing indole, a signalling molecule generated by
actively growing, unstressed cells. We show, through transcriptional profiling,
that indole serves to turn on drug efflux pumps and oxidative-stress protective
mechanisms. The indole production comes at a fitness cost to the highly resistant
isolates, and whole-genome sequencing reveals that this bacterial altruism is
made possible by drug-resistance mutations unrelated to indole production. This
work establishes a population-based resistance mechanism constituting a form of
kin selection whereby a small number of resistant mutants can, at some cost to
themselves, provide protection to other, more vulnerable, cells, enhancing the
survival capacity of the overall population in stressful environments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09354 
PMCID: PMC2936489
PMID: 20811456  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):78-81. doi: 10.1038/nature09317.

Olivine water contents in the continental lithosphere and the longevity of
cratons.

Peslier AH(1), Woodland AB, Bell DR, Lazarov M.

Author information: 
(1)Jacobs Technology, ESCG, Mail Code JE23, 2224 Bay Area Boulevard, Houston,
Texas 77058, USA. anne.h.peslier@nasa.gov

Cratons, the ancient cores of continents, contain the oldest crust and mantle on 
the Earth (>2 Gyr old). They extend laterally for hundreds of kilometres, and are
underlain to depths of 180-250 km by mantle roots that are chemically and
physically distinct from the surrounding mantle. Forming the thickest lithosphere
on our planet, they act as rigid keels isolated from the flowing asthenosphere;
however, it has remained an open question how these large portions of the mantle 
can stay isolated for so long from mantle convection. Key physical properties
thought to contribute to this longevity include chemical buoyancy due to high
degrees of melt-depletion and the stiffness imparted by the low temperatures of a
conductive thermal gradient. Geodynamic calculations, however, suggest that these
characteristics are not sufficient to prevent the lithospheric mantle from being 
entrained during mantle convection over billions of years. Differences in water
content are a potential source of additional viscosity contrast between cratonic 
roots and ambient mantle owing to the well-established hydrolytic weakening
effect in olivine, the most abundant mineral of the upper mantle. However, the
water contents of cratonic mantle roots have to date been poorly constrained.
Here we show that olivine in peridotite xenoliths from the
lithosphere-asthenosphere boundary region of the Kaapvaal craton mantle root are 
water-poor and provide sufficient viscosity contrast with underlying
asthenosphere to satisfy the stability criteria required by geodynamic
calculations. Our results provide a solution to a puzzling mystery of plate
tectonics, namely why the oldest continents, in contrast to short-lived oceanic
plates, have resisted recycling into the interior of our tectonically dynamic
planet.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09317 
PMID: 20811455 


294. Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):73-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09312.

Polar patterns of driven filaments.

Schaller V(1), Weber C, Semmrich C, Frey E, Bausch AR.

Author information: 
(1)Lehrstuhl für Biophysik-E27, Technische Universität München, 85748 Garching,
Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):33-4.

The emergence of collective motion exhibited by systems ranging from flocks of
animals to self-propelled microorganisms to the cytoskeleton is a ubiquitous and 
fascinating self-organization phenomenon. Similarities between these systems,
such as the inherent polarity of the constituents, a density-dependent transition
to ordered phases or the existence of very large density fluctuations, suggest
universal principles underlying pattern formation. This idea is followed by
theoretical models at all levels of description: micro- or mesoscopic models
directly map local forces and interactions using only a few, preferably simple,
interaction rules, and more macroscopic approaches in the hydrodynamic limit rely
on the systems' generic symmetries. All these models characteristically have a
broad parameter space with a manifold of possible patterns, most of which have
not yet been experimentally verified. The complexity of interactions and the
limited parameter control of existing experimental systems are major obstacles to
our understanding of the underlying ordering principles. Here we demonstrate the 
emergence of collective motion in a high-density motility assay that consists of 
highly concentrated actin filaments propelled by immobilized molecular motors in 
a planar geometry. Above a critical density, the filaments self-organize to form 
coherently moving structures with persistent density modulations, such as
clusters, swirls and interconnected bands. These polar nematic structures are
long lived and can span length scales orders of magnitudes larger than their
constituents. Our experimental approach, which offers control of all relevant
system parameters, complemented by agent-based simulations, allows backtracking
of the assembly and disassembly pathways to the underlying local interactions. We
identify weak and local alignment interactions to be essential for the observed
formation of patterns and their dynamics. The presented minimal
polar-pattern-forming system may thus provide new insight into emerging order in 
the broad class of active fluids and self-propelled particles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09312 
PMID: 20811454  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):64-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09344.

Warm water vapour in the sooty outflow from a luminous carbon star.

Decin L(1), Agúndez M, Barlow MJ, Daniel F, Cernicharo J, Lombaert R, De Beck E, 
Royer P, Vandenbussche B, Wesson R, Polehampton ET, Blommaert JA, De Meester W,
Exter K, Feuchtgruber H, Gear WK, Gomez HL, Groenewegen MA, Guélin M, Hargrave
PC, Huygen R, Imhof P, Ivison RJ, Jean C, Kahane C, Kerschbaum F, Leeks SJ, Lim
T, Matsuura M, Olofsson G, Posch T, Regibo S, Savini G, Sibthorpe B, Swinyard BM,
Yates JA, Waelkens C.

Author information: 
(1)Instituut voor Sterrenkunde, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Celestijnenlaan
200D, 3001 Leuven, Belgium. Leen.Decin@ster.kuleuven.be

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):35-6.

The detection of circumstellar water vapour around the ageing carbon star IRC
+10216 challenged the current understanding of chemistry in old stars, because
water was predicted to be almost absent in carbon-rich stars. Several
explanations for the water were postulated, including the vaporization of icy
bodies (comets or dwarf planets) in orbit around the star, grain surface
reactions, and photochemistry in the outer circumstellar envelope. With a single 
water line detected so far from this one carbon-rich evolved star, it is
difficult to discriminate between the different mechanisms proposed. Here we
report the detection of dozens of water vapour lines in the far-infrared and
sub-millimetre spectrum of IRC +10216 using the Herschel satellite. This includes
some high-excitation lines with energies corresponding to approximately 1,000 K, 
which can be explained only if water is present in the warm inner sooty region of
the envelope. A plausible explanation for the warm water appears to be the
penetration of ultraviolet photons deep into a clumpy circumstellar envelope.
This mechanism also triggers the formation of other molecules, such as ammonia,
whose observed abundances are much higher than hitherto predicted.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09344 
PMID: 20811453 


296. Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):59-63. doi: 10.1038/nature09336.

Neurotrophin receptors TrkA and TrkC cause neuronal death whereas TrkB does not.

Nikoletopoulou V(1), Lickert H, Frade JM, Rencurel C, Giallonardo P, Zhang L,
Bibel M, Barde YA.

Author information: 
(1)Biozentrum, University of Basel, CH-4056 Basel, Switzerland.
n.vassiliki@unibas.ch

Neurons of the peripheral nervous system have long been known to require survival
factors to prevent their death during development. But why they selectively
become dependent on secretory molecules has remained a mystery, as is the
observation that in the central nervous system, most neurons do not show this
dependency. Using engineered embryonic stem cells, we show here that the
neurotrophin receptors TrkA and TrkC (tropomyosin receptor kinase A and C, also
known as Ntrk1 and Ntrk3, respectively) instruct developing neurons to die, both 
in vitro and in vivo. By contrast, TrkB (also known as Ntrk2), a closely related 
receptor primarily expressed in the central nervous system, does not. These
results indicate that TrkA and TrkC behave as dependence receptors, explaining
why developing sympathetic and sensory neurons become trophic-factor-dependent
for survival. We suggest that the expansion of the Trk gene family that
accompanied the segregation of the peripheral from the central nervous system
generated a novel mechanism of cell number control.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09336 
PMID: 20811452  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):52-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09298.

Integrating common and rare genetic variation in diverse human populations.

International HapMap 3 Consortium(1), Altshuler DM, Gibbs RA, Peltonen L,
Altshuler DM, Gibbs RA, Peltonen L, Dermitzakis E, Schaffner SF, Yu F, Peltonen
L, Dermitzakis E, Bonnen PE, Altshuler DM, Gibbs RA, de Bakker PI, Deloukas P,
Gabriel SB, Gwilliam R, Hunt S, Inouye M, Jia X, Palotie A, Parkin M, Whittaker
P, Yu F, Chang K, Hawes A, Lewis LR, Ren Y, Wheeler D, Gibbs RA, Muzny DM, Barnes
C, Darvishi K, Hurles M, Korn JM, Kristiansson K, Lee C, McCarrol SA, Nemesh J,
Dermitzakis E, Keinan A, Montgomery SB, Pollack S, Price AL, Soranzo N, Bonnen
PE, Gibbs RA, Gonzaga-Jauregui C, Keinan A, Price AL, Yu F, Anttila V, Brodeur W,
Daly MJ, Leslie S, McVean G, Moutsianas L, Nguyen H, Schaffner SF, Zhang Q, Ghori
MJ, McGinnis R, McLaren W, Pollack S, Price AL, Schaffner SF, Takeuchi F,
Grossman SR, Shlyakhter I, Hostetter EB, Sabeti PC, Adebamowo CA, Foster MW,
Gordon DR, Licinio J, Manca MC, Marshall PA, Matsuda I, Ngare D, Wang VO, Reddy
D, Rotimi CN, Royal CD, Sharp RR, Zeng C, Brooks LD, McEwen JE.

Author information: 
(1)Broad Institute, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
altshuler@molbio.mgh.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nat Methods. 2010 Oct;7(10):780-1.

Despite great progress in identifying genetic variants that influence human
disease, most inherited risk remains unexplained. A more complete understanding
requires genome-wide studies that fully examine less common alleles in
populations with a wide range of ancestry. To inform the design and
interpretation of such studies, we genotyped 1.6 million common single nucleotide
polymorphisms (SNPs) in 1,184 reference individuals from 11 global populations,
and sequenced ten 100-kilobase regions in 692 of these individuals. This
integrated data set of common and rare alleles, called 'HapMap 3', includes both 
SNPs and copy number polymorphisms (CNPs). We characterized population-specific
differences among low-frequency variants, measured the improvement in imputation 
accuracy afforded by the larger reference panel, especially in imputing SNPs with
a minor allele frequency of <or=5%, and demonstrated the feasibility of imputing 
newly discovered CNPs and SNPs. This expanded public resource of genome variants 
in global populations supports deeper interrogation of genomic variation and its 
role in human disease, and serves as a step towards a high-resolution map of the 
landscape of human genetic variation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09298 
PMCID: PMC3173859
PMID: 20811451  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):43-51. doi: 10.1038/nature09364.

The impacts of climate change on water resources and agriculture in China.

Piao S(1), Ciais P, Huang Y, Shen Z, Peng S, Li J, Zhou L, Liu H, Ma Y, Ding Y,
Friedlingstein P, Liu C, Tan K, Yu Y, Zhang T, Fang J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology, College of Urban and Environmental Science, Key
Laboratory for Earth Surface Processes of the Ministry of Education, and Center
of Climate Research, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China. slpiao@pku.edu.cn

China is the world's most populous country and a major emitter of greenhouse
gases. Consequently, much research has focused on China's influence on climate
change but somewhat less has been written about the impact of climate change on
China. China experienced explosive economic growth in recent decades, but with
only 7% of the world's arable land available to feed 22% of the world's
population, China's economy may be vulnerable to climate change itself. We find, 
however, that notwithstanding the clear warming that has occurred in China in
recent decades, current understanding does not allow a clear assessment of the
impact of anthropogenic climate change on China's water resources and agriculture
and therefore China's ability to feed its people. To reach a more definitive
conclusion, future work must improve regional climate simulations-especially of
precipitation-and develop a better understanding of the managed and unmanaged
responses of crops to changes in climate, diseases, pests and atmospheric
constituents.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09364 
PMID: 20811450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):E3-4; discussion E5. doi: 10.1038/nature09305.

Can controversies be put to REST?

Jørgensen HF(1), Fisher AG.

Author information: 
(1)Lymphocyte Development Group, MRC Clinical Sciences Centre, Imperial College
School of Medicine, Hammersmith Hospital Campus, Du Cane Road, London W12 0NN,
UK. amanda.fisher@csc.mrc.ac.uk

Comment on
    Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):223-7.

The contribution of REST to embryonic stem (ES) cell pluripotency has been
uncertain. Two years ago, Singh et al. claimed that Rest(+/-) and REST knock-down
ES cells expressed reduced levels of pluripotency markers, in contrast to a prior
and subsequent reports. To understand the basis of this difference, we analysed
the YHC334 (YHC) and RRC160 (RRC) gene-trap ES cell lines used by Singh et al.,
obtained directly from BayGenomics. Both REST mutant lines generated REST-betaGeo
fusion proteins, but expressed pluripotency genes at levels similar to
appropriately matched parental wild ES cells, consistent with expression being
REST-independent.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09305 
PMID: 20811409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):E1; discussion E2. doi: 10.1038/nature09340.

Atom gravimeters and gravitational redshift.

Wolf P(1), Blanchet L, Bordé CJ, Reynaud S, Salomon C, Cohen-Tannoudji C.

Author information: 
(1)Systèmes de Références Temps Espace, CNRS UMR 8630, Laboratoire National de
Métrologie et d'Essais, Université Pierre et Marie Curie, Observatoire de Paris, 
61 avenue de l'Observatoire, 75014 Paris, France. peter.wolf@obspm.fr

Comment on
    Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):926-9.

In ref. 1 the authors present a re-interpretation of atom interferometry
experiments published a decade ago. They now consider the atom interferometry
experiments as a measurement of the gravitational redshift on the quantum clock
operating at the Compton frequency omega(C) = mc(2)/ approximately 2pi x 3.0 x
10(25) Hz, where m is the caesium (Cs) atom rest mass. They then argue that this 
redshift measurement compares favourably with existing as well as projected clock
tests. Here we show that this interpretation is incorrect.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09340 
PMID: 20811407 


301. Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):99-102. doi: 10.1038/nature09309. Epub 2010 Aug 15.

Neurological disease mutations compromise a C-terminal ion pathway in the
Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase.

Poulsen H(1), Khandelia H, Morth JP, Bublitz M, Mouritsen OG, Egebjerg J, Nissen 
P.

Author information: 
(1)PUMPKIN - Centre for Membrane Pumps in Cells and Disease, Danish National
Research Foundation, Department of Molecular Biology, Aarhus University, DK-8000 
Aarhus C, Denmark. hp@mb.au.dk

The Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase pumps three sodium ions out of and two potassium ions into 
the cell for each ATP molecule that is split, thereby generating the chemical and
electrical gradients across the plasma membrane that are essential in, for
example, signalling, secondary transport and volume regulation in animal cells.
Crystal structures of the potassium-bound form of the pump revealed an intimate
docking of the alpha-subunit carboxy terminus at the transmembrane domain. Here
we show that this element is a key regulator of a previously unrecognized ion
pathway. Current models of P-type ATPases operate with a single ion conduit
through the pump, but our data suggest an additional pathway in the
Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase between the ion-binding sites and the cytoplasm. The C-terminal
pathway allows a cytoplasmic proton to enter and stabilize site III when empty in
the potassium-bound state, and when potassium is released the proton will also
return to the cytoplasm, thus allowing an overall asymmetric stoichiometry of the
transported ions. The C terminus controls the gate to the pathway. Its structure 
is crucial for pump function, as demonstrated by at least eight mutations in the 
region that cause severe neurological diseases. This novel model for ion
transport by the Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase is established by electrophysiological studies
of C-terminal mutations in familial hemiplegic migraine 2 (FHM2) and is further
substantiated by molecular dynamics simulations. A similar ion regulation is
likely to apply to the H(+)/K(+)-ATPase and the Ca(2+)-ATPase.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09309 
PMID: 20720542  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):68-72. doi: 10.1038/nature09378. Epub 2010 Aug 18.

Single-atom-resolved fluorescence imaging of an atomic Mott insulator.

Sherson JF(1), Weitenberg C, Endres M, Cheneau M, Bloch I, Kuhr S.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Quantenoptik, Hans-Kopfermann-Strasse 1, D-85748
Garching, Germany.

The reliable detection of single quantum particles has revolutionized the field
of quantum optics and quantum information processing. For several years,
researchers have aspired to extend such detection possibilities to larger-scale, 
strongly correlated quantum systems in order to record in situ images of a
quantum fluid in which each underlying quantum particle is detected. Here we
report fluorescence imaging of strongly interacting bosonic Mott insulators in an
optical lattice with single-atom and single-site resolution. From our images, we 
fully reconstruct the atom distribution on the lattice and identify individual
excitations with high fidelity. A comparison of the radial density and variance
distributions with theory provides a precise in situ temperature and entropy
measurement from single images. We observe Mott-insulating plateaus with
near-zero entropy and clearly resolve the high-entropy rings separating them,
even though their width is of the order of just a single lattice site.
Furthermore, we show how a Mott insulator melts with increasing temperature,
owing to a proliferation of local defects. The ability to resolve individual
lattice sites directly opens up new avenues for the manipulation, analysis and
applications of strongly interacting quantum gases on a lattice. For example, one
could introduce local perturbations or access regions of high entropy, a crucial 
requirement for the implementation of novel cooling schemes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09378 
PMID: 20720540 


303. Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):86-90. doi: 10.1038/nature09284. Epub 2010 Aug 8.

OncomiR addiction in an in vivo model of microRNA-21-induced pre-B-cell lymphoma.

Medina PP(1), Nolde M, Slack FJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, Yale University, 
PO Box 208103, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) belong to a recently discovered class of small RNA molecules
that regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. miRNAs have
crucial functions in the development and establishment of cell identity, and
aberrant metabolism or expression of miRNAs has been linked to human diseases,
including cancer. Components of the miRNA machinery and miRNAs themselves are
involved in many cellular processes that are altered in cancer, such as
differentiation, proliferation and apoptosis. Some miRNAs, referred to as
oncomiRs, show differential expression levels in cancer and are able to affect
cellular transformation, carcinogenesis and metastasis, acting either as
oncogenes or tumour suppressors. The phenomenon of 'oncogene addiction' reveals
that despite the multistep nature of tumorigenesis, targeting of certain single
oncogenes can have therapeutic value, and the possibility of oncomiR addiction
has been proposed but never demonstrated. MicroRNA-21 (miR-21) is a unique miRNA 
in that it is overexpressed in most tumour types analysed so far. Despite great
interest in miR-21, most of the data implicating it in cancer have been obtained 
through miRNA profiling and limited in vitro functional assays. To explore the
role of miR-21 in cancer in vivo, we used Cre and Tet-off technologies to
generate mice conditionally expressing miR-21. Here we show that overexpression
of miR-21 leads to a pre-B malignant lymphoid-like phenotype, demonstrating that 
mir-21 is a genuine oncogene. When miR-21 was inactivated, the tumours regressed 
completely in a few days, partly as a result of apoptosis. These results
demonstrate that tumours can become addicted to oncomiRs and support efforts to
treat human cancers through pharmacological inactivation of miRNAs such as
miR-21.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09284 
PMID: 20693987  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1115-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09283.

IkappaBbeta acts to inhibit and activate gene expression during the inflammatory 
response.

Rao P(1), Hayden MS, Long M, Scott ML, West AP, Zhang D, Oeckinghaus A, Lynch C, 
Hoffmann A, Baltimore D, Ghosh S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology and Department of Molecular Biophysics &
Biochemistry, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520,
USA.

The activation of pro-inflammatory gene programs by nuclear factor-kappaB
(NF-kappaB) is primarily regulated through cytoplasmic sequestration of NF-kappaB
by the inhibitor of kappaB (IkappaB) family of proteins. IkappaBbeta, a major
isoform of IkappaB, can sequester NF-kappaB in the cytoplasm, although its
biological role remains unclear. Although cells lacking IkappaBbeta have been
reported, in vivo studies have been limited and suggested redundancy between
IkappaBalpha and IkappaBbeta. Like IkappaBalpha, IkappaBbeta is also inducibly
degraded; however, upon stimulation by lipopolysaccharide (LPS), it is degraded
slowly and re-synthesized as a hypophosphorylated form that can be detected in
the nucleus. The crystal structure of IkappaBbeta bound to p65 suggested this
complex might bind DNA. In vitro, hypophosphorylated IkappaBbeta can bind DNA
with p65 and c-Rel, and the DNA-bound NF-kappaB:IkappaBbeta complexes are
resistant to IkappaBalpha, suggesting hypophosphorylated, nuclear IkappaBbeta may
prolong the expression of certain genes. Here we report that in vivo IkappaBbeta 
serves both to inhibit and facilitate the inflammatory response. IkappaBbeta
degradation releases NF-kappaB dimers which upregulate pro-inflammatory target
genes such as tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). Surprisingly, absence of 
IkappaBbeta results in a dramatic reduction of TNF-alpha in response to LPS even 
though activation of NF-kappaB is normal. The inhibition of TNF-alpha messenger
RNA (mRNA) expression correlates with the absence of nuclear,
hypophosphorylated-IkappaBbeta bound to p65:c-Rel heterodimers at a specific
kappaB site on the TNF-alpha promoter. Therefore IkappaBbeta acts through
p65:c-Rel dimers to maintain prolonged expression of TNF-alpha. As a result,
IkappaBbeta(-/-) mice are resistant to LPS-induced septic shock and
collagen-induced arthritis. Blocking IkappaBbeta might be a promising new
strategy for selectively inhibiting the chronic phase of TNF-alpha production
during the inflammatory response.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09283 
PMCID: PMC2946371
PMID: 20740013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1093-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09288.

Upper-ocean-to-atmosphere radiocarbon offsets imply fast deglacial carbon dioxide
release.

Rose KA(1), Sikes EL, Guilderson TP, Shane P, Hill TM, Zahn R, Spero HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology, University of California, Davis, California 95616, USA.

Radiocarbon in the atmosphere is regulated largely by ocean circulation, which
controls the sequestration of carbon dioxide (CO(2)) in the deep sea through
atmosphere-ocean carbon exchange. During the last glaciation, lower atmospheric
CO(2) levels were accompanied by increased atmospheric radiocarbon concentrations
that have been attributed to greater storage of CO(2) in a poorly ventilated
abyssal ocean. The end of the ice age was marked by a rapid increase in
atmospheric CO(2) concentrations that coincided with reduced (14)C/(12)C ratios
(Delta(14)C) in the atmosphere, suggesting the release of very 'old'
((14)C-depleted) CO(2) from the deep ocean to the atmosphere. Here we present
radiocarbon records of surface and intermediate-depth waters from two sediment
cores in the southwest Pacific and Southern oceans. We find a steady 170 per mil 
decrease in Delta(14)C that precedes and roughly equals in magnitude the decrease
in the atmospheric radiocarbon signal during the early stages of the
glacial-interglacial climatic transition. The atmospheric decrease in the
radiocarbon signal coincides with regionally intensified upwelling and marine
biological productivity, suggesting that CO(2) released by means of deep water
upwelling in the Southern Ocean lost most of its original depleted-(14)C imprint 
as a result of exchange and isotopic equilibration with the atmosphere. Our data 
imply that the deglacial (14)C depletion previously identified in the eastern
tropical North Pacific must have involved contributions from sources other than
the previously suggested carbon release by way of a deep Southern Ocean pathway, 
and may reflect the expanded influence of the (14)C-depleted North Pacific carbon
reservoir across this interval. Accordingly, shallow water masses advecting north
across the South Pacific in the early deglaciation had little or no residual
(14)C-depleted signals owing to degassing of CO(2) and biological uptake in the
Southern Ocean.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09288 
PMID: 20740012  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1089-92. doi: 10.1038/nature09286.

Coherent measurements of high-order electronic correlations in quantum wells.

Turner DB(1), Nelson KA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1047-8.

Strong, long-range Coulomb interactions can lead to correlated motions of
multiple charged particles, which can induce important many-body effects in
semiconductors. The exciton states formed from correlated electron-hole pairs
have been studied extensively, but basic properties of multiple-exciton
correlations-such as coherence times, population lifetimes, binding energies and 
the number of particles that can be correlated-are largely unknown because they
are not spectroscopically accessible from the ground state. Here we present
direct observations of high-order coherences in gallium arsenide quantum wells,
achieved using two-dimensional multiple-quantum spectroscopy methods in which up 
to seven successive light fields were used. The measurements were made possible
by the combination of a reconfigurable spatial beam-shaper that formed multiple
beams in specified geometries and a spatiotemporal pulse-shaper that controlled
the relative optical phases and temporal delays among pulses in all the beams.
The results reveal triexciton coherences (correlations of three excitons or six
particles), whose existence was not obvious because the third exciton spin is
unpaired, and the values of their coherence times and binding energies. Rephasing
of biexcitons, triexcitons and unbound two-exciton coherences was demonstrated.
We also determined that there are no significant unbound correlations of three
excitons and no bound or unbound four-exciton (eight-particle) correlations.
Thus, the limits, as well as the properties, of many-body correlations in this
system were revealed. The measurement methods open a new window into high-order
many-body interactions in materials and molecules, and the present results should
guide ongoing work on first-principles calculations of electronic interactions in
semiconductor nanostructures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09286 
PMID: 20740011 


307. Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1085-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09315.

Formation of asteroid pairs by rotational fission.

Pravec P(1), Vokrouhlický D, Polishook D, Scheeres DJ, Harris AW, Galád A,
Vaduvescu O, Pozo F, Barr A, Longa P, Vachier F, Colas F, Pray DP, Pollock J,
Reichart D, Ivarsen K, Haislip J, Lacluyze A, Kusnirák P, Henych T, Marchis F,
Macomber B, Jacobson SA, Krugly YN, Sergeev AV, Leroy A.

Author information: 
(1)Astronomical Institute AS CR, Fricova 1, CZ-25165 Ondrejov, Czech Republic.
ppravec@asu.cas.cz

Pairs of asteroids sharing similar heliocentric orbits, but not bound together,
were found recently. Backward integrations of their orbits indicated that they
separated gently with low relative velocities, but did not provide additional
insight into their formation mechanism. A previously hypothesized rotational
fission process may explain their formation-critical predictions are that the
mass ratios are less than about 0.2 and, as the mass ratio approaches this upper 
limit, the spin period of the larger body becomes long. Here we report
photometric observations of a sample of asteroid pairs, revealing that the
primaries of pairs with mass ratios much less than 0.2 rotate rapidly, near their
critical fission frequency. As the mass ratio approaches 0.2, the primary period 
grows long. This occurs as the total energy of the system approaches zero,
requiring the asteroid pair to extract an increasing fraction of energy from the 
primary's spin in order to escape. We do not find asteroid pairs with mass ratios
larger than 0.2. Rotationally fissioned systems beyond this limit have
insufficient energy to disrupt. We conclude that asteroid pairs are formed by the
rotational fission of a parent asteroid into a proto-binary system, which
subsequently disrupts under its own internal system dynamics soon after
formation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09315 
PMID: 20740010 


308. Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1082-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09294.

Direct formation of supermassive black holes via multi-scale gas inflows in
galaxy mergers.

Mayer L(1), Kazantzidis S, Escala A, Callegari S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Theoretical Physics, University of Zürich, 190
Winterthurestrasse, Zürich 8057, Switzerland. lmayer@physik.unizh.ch

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1049-50.

Observations of distant quasars indicate that supermassive black holes of
billions of solar masses already existed less than a billion years after the Big 
Bang. Models in which the 'seeds' of such black holes form by the collapse of
primordial metal-free stars cannot explain the rapid appearance of these
supermassive black holes because gas accretion is not sufficiently efficient.
Alternatively, these black holes may form by direct collapse of gas within
isolated protogalaxies, but current models require idealized conditions, such as 
metal-free gas, to prevent cooling and star formation from consuming the gas
reservoir. Here we report simulations showing that mergers between massive
protogalaxies naturally produce the conditions for direct collapse into a
supermassive black hole with no need to suppress cooling and star formation.
Merger-driven gas inflows give rise to an unstable, massive nuclear gas disk of a
few billion solar masses, which funnels more than 10(8) solar masses of gas to a 
sub-parsec-scale gas cloud in only 100,000 years. The cloud undergoes
gravitational collapse, which eventually leads to the formation of a massive
black hole. The black hole can subsequently grow to a billion solar masses on
timescales of about 10(8) years by accreting gas from the surrounding disk.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09294 
PMID: 20740009 


309. Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1076-81. doi: 10.1038/nature09307.

Heterochromatin silencing of p53 target genes by a small viral protein.

Soria C(1), Estermann FE, Espantman KC, O'Shea CC.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Cell Biology Laboratory, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, 
10010 N. Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037-1099, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1054-5.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2010 Oct;10(10):664.

The transcription factor p53 (also known as TP53) guards against tumour and virus
replication and is inactivated in almost all cancers. p53-activated transcription
of target genes is thought to be synonymous with the stabilization of p53 in
response to oncogenes and DNA damage. During adenovirus replication, the
degradation of p53 by E1B-55k is considered essential for p53 inactivation, and
is the basis for p53-selective viral cancer therapies. Here we reveal a dominant 
epigenetic mechanism that silences p53-activated transcription, irrespective of
p53 phosphorylation and stabilization. We show that another adenoviral protein,
E4-ORF3, inactivates p53 independently of E1B-55k by forming a nuclear structure 
that induces de novo H3K9me3 heterochromatin formation at p53 target promoters,
preventing p53-DNA binding. This suppressive nuclear web is highly selective in
silencing p53 promoters and operates in the backdrop of global transcriptional
changes that drive oncogenic replication. These findings are important for
understanding how high levels of wild-type p53 might also be inactivated in
cancer as well as the mechanisms that induce aberrant epigenetic silencing of
tumour-suppressor loci. Our study changes the longstanding definition of how p53 
is inactivated in adenovirus infection and provides key insights that could
enable the development of true p53-selective oncolytic viral therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09307 
PMCID: PMC2929938
PMID: 20740008  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1069-75. doi: 10.1038/nature09320.

Ataxin-2 intermediate-length polyglutamine expansions are associated with
increased risk for ALS.

Elden AC(1), Kim HJ, Hart MP, Chen-Plotkin AS, Johnson BS, Fang X, Armakola M,
Geser F, Greene R, Lu MM, Padmanabhan A, Clay-Falcone D, McCluskey L, Elman L,
Juhr D, Gruber PJ, Rüb U, Auburger G, Trojanowski JQ, Lee VM, Van Deerlin VM,
Bonini NM, Gitler AD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1052-3.

The causes of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a devastating human
neurodegenerative disease, are poorly understood, although the protein TDP-43 has
been suggested to have a critical role in disease pathogenesis. Here we show that
ataxin 2 (ATXN2), a polyglutamine (polyQ) protein mutated in spinocerebellar
ataxia type 2, is a potent modifier of TDP-43 toxicity in animal and cellular
models. ATXN2 and TDP-43 associate in a complex that depends on RNA. In spinal
cord neurons of ALS patients, ATXN2 is abnormally localized; likewise, TDP-43
shows mislocalization in spinocerebellar ataxia type 2. To assess the involvement
of ATXN2 in ALS, we analysed the length of the polyQ repeat in the ATXN2 gene in 
915 ALS patients. We found that intermediate-length polyQ expansions (27-33
glutamines) in ATXN2 were significantly associated with ALS. These data establish
ATXN2 as a relatively common ALS susceptibility gene. Furthermore, these findings
indicate that the TDP-43-ATXN2 interaction may be a promising target for
therapeutic intervention in ALS and other TDP-43 proteinopathies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09320 
PMCID: PMC2965417
PMID: 20740007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1063-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09332.

Lithospheric layering in the North American craton.

Yuan H(1), Romanowicz B.

Author information: 
(1)Berkeley Seismological Laboratory, 209 McCone Hall, Berkeley, California
94720, USA.

How cratons-extremely stable continental areas of the Earth's crust-formed and
remained largely unchanged for more than 2,500 million years is much debated.
Recent studies of seismic-wave receiver function data have detected a structural 
boundary under continental cratons at depths too shallow to be consistent with
the lithosphere-asthenosphere boundary, as inferred from seismic tomography and
other geophysical studies. Here we show that changes in the direction of
azimuthal anisotropy with depth reveal the presence of two distinct lithospheric 
layers throughout the stable part of the North American continent. The top layer 
is thick ( approximately 150 km) under the Archaean core and tapers out on the
surrounding Palaeozoic borders. Its thickness variations follow those of a highly
depleted layer inferred from thermo-barometric analysis of xenoliths. The
lithosphere-asthenosphere boundary is relatively flat (ranging from 180 to 240 km
in depth), in agreement with the presence of a thermal conductive root that
subsequently formed around the depleted chemical layer. Our findings tie together
seismological, geochemical and geodynamical studies of the cratonic lithosphere
in North America. They also suggest that the horizon detected in receiver
function studies probably corresponds to the sharp mid-lithospheric boundary
rather than to the more gradual lithosphere-asthenosphere boundary.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09332 
PMID: 20740006 


312. Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1057-62. doi: 10.1038/nature09205.

The evolution of eusociality.

Nowak MA(1), Tarnita CE, Wilson EO.

Author information: 
(1)Program for Evolutionary Dynamics, Department of Mathematics, Harvard
University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. martin_nowak@harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):E1-4; author reply E9-10.
    Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):E8-9; author reply E9-10.
    Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):661.
    Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):661.
    Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):E4-5; author reply E9-10.
    Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):E6-8; author reply E9-10.
    Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):661.
    Nature. 2010 Oct 7;467(7316):661.
    Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):E5-6; author reply E9-10.

Eusociality, in which some individuals reduce their own lifetime reproductive
potential to raise the offspring of others, underlies the most advanced forms of 
social organization and the ecologically dominant role of social insects and
humans. For the past four decades kin selection theory, based on the concept of
inclusive fitness, has been the major theoretical attempt to explain the
evolution of eusociality. Here we show the limitations of this approach. We argue
that standard natural selection theory in the context of precise models of
population structure represents a simpler and superior approach, allows the
evaluation of multiple competing hypotheses, and provides an exact framework for 
interpreting empirical observations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09205 
PMCID: PMC3279739
PMID: 20740005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):E11; discussion E12. doi: 10.1038/nature09275.

Evidence for male allocation in pipefish?

Gwynne DT(1), Judge KA, Kelly CD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Toronto Mississauga, Mississauga,
Ontario, Canada L5L 1C6. darryl.gwynne@utoronto.ca

Comment on
    Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):401-4.

Sexual differences in the extent and type of parental care lie at the heart of
sexual selection theory, and evolution resulting from parental conflict has
produced some striking behavioural and morphological adaptations. In a study of
male pregnancy in Gulf pipefish, Paczolt and Jones showed that more eggs were
transferred to the male's brood pouch and more offspring survived following
mating with large females (preferred by males) than with small (less preferred)
females. Although the authors conclude that the lower survival of embryos from
small females is most consistent with males actively removing resources from
these offspring, no data are presented to directly support this hypothesis (ref. 
2, and Supplementary Information therein) and the data do not refute the
alternative explanation that differential egg survival is caused by female
effects mediated by variation in fecundity and egg size or quality. We argue that
only by experimentally manipulating female attractiveness separately from the
quality of eggs deposited in the brood pouch can the extent of sexual conflict in
this role-reversed system be assessed.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09275 
PMID: 20739960  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1102-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09319. Epub 2010 Aug 11.

Statistical inference for noisy nonlinear ecological dynamic systems.

Wood SN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Mathematical Sciences, University of Bath, Bath BA2 7AY, UK. s.wood@bath.ac.uk

Chaotic ecological dynamic systems defy conventional statistical analysis.
Systems with near-chaotic dynamics are little better. Such systems are almost
invariably driven by endogenous dynamic processes plus demographic and
environmental process noise, and are only observable with error. Their
sensitivity to history means that minute changes in the driving noise
realization, or the system parameters, will cause drastic changes in the system
trajectory. This sensitivity is inherited and amplified by the joint probability 
density of the observable data and the process noise, rendering it useless as the
basis for obtaining measures of statistical fit. Because the joint density is the
basis for the fit measures used by all conventional statistical methods, this is 
a major theoretical shortcoming. The inability to make well-founded statistical
inferences about biological dynamic models in the chaotic and near-chaotic
regimes, other than on an ad hoc basis, leaves dynamic theory without the methods
of quantitative validation that are essential tools in the rest of biological
science. Here I show that this impasse can be resolved in a simple and general
manner, using a method that requires only the ability to simulate the observed
data on a system from the dynamic model about which inferences are required. The 
raw data series are reduced to phase-insensitive summary statistics, quantifying 
local dynamic structure and the distribution of observations. Simulation is used 
to obtain the mean and the covariance matrix of the statistics, given model
parameters, allowing the construction of a 'synthetic likelihood' that assesses
model fit. This likelihood can be explored using a straightforward Markov chain
Monte Carlo sampler, but one further post-processing step returns pure
likelihood-based inference. I apply the method to establish the dynamic nature of
the fluctuations in Nicholson's classic blowfly experiments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09319 
PMID: 20703226  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1110-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09264. Epub 2010 Aug 4.

Rb regulates fate choice and lineage commitment in vivo.

Calo E(1), Quintero-Estades JA, Danielian PS, Nedelcu S, Berman SD, Lees JA.

Author information: 
(1)David H. Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research at MIT, Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139,
USA.

Comment in
    Dev Cell. 2010 Sep 14;19(3):360-2.

Mutation of the retinoblastoma gene (RB1) tumour suppressor occurs in one-third
of all human tumours and is particularly associated with retinoblastoma and
osteosarcoma. Numerous functions have been ascribed to the product of the human
RB1 gene, the retinoblastoma protein (pRb). The best known is pRb's ability to
promote cell-cycle exit through inhibition of the E2F transcription factors and
the transcriptional repression of genes encoding cell-cycle regulators. In
addition, pRb has been shown in vitro to regulate several transcription factors
that are master differentiation inducers. Depending on the differentiation factor
and cellular context, pRb can either suppress or promote their transcriptional
activity. For example, pRb binds to Runx2 and potentiates its ability to promote 
osteogenic differentiation in vitro. In contrast, pRb acts with E2F to suppress
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma subunit (PPAR-gamma), the master
activator of adipogenesis. Because osteoblasts and adipocytes can both arise from
mesenchymal stem cells, these observations suggest that pRb might play a role in 
the choice between these two fates. However, so far, there is no evidence for
this in vivo. Here we use mouse models to address this hypothesis in mesenchymal 
tissue development and tumorigenesis. Our data show that Rb status plays a key
role in establishing fate choice between bone and brown adipose tissue in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09264 
PMCID: PMC2933655
PMID: 20686481  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1120-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09296. Epub 2010 Aug 1.

A ribosome-associating factor chaperones tail-anchored membrane proteins.

Mariappan M(1), Li X, Stefanovic S, Sharma A, Mateja A, Keenan RJ, Hegde RS.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology and Metabolism Program, National Institute of Child Health and
Human Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Hundreds of proteins are inserted post-translationally into the endoplasmic
reticulum (ER) membrane by a single carboxy-terminal transmembrane domain (TMD). 
During targeting through the cytosol, the hydrophobic TMD of these tail-anchored 
(TA) proteins requires constant chaperoning to prevent aggregation or
inappropriate interactions. A central component of this targeting system is
TRC40, a conserved cytosolic factor that recognizes the TMD of TA proteins and
delivers them to the ER for insertion. The mechanism that permits TRC40 to find
and capture its TA protein cargos effectively in a highly crowded cytosol is
unknown. Here we identify a conserved three-protein complex composed of Bat3,
TRC35 and Ubl4A that facilitates TA protein capture by TRC40. This Bat3 complex
is recruited to ribosomes synthesizing membrane proteins, interacts with the TMDs
of newly released TA proteins, and transfers them to TRC40 for targeting.
Depletion of the Bat3 complex allows non-TRC40 factors to compete for TA
proteins, explaining their mislocalization in the analogous yeast deletion
strains. Thus, the Bat3 complex acts as a TMD-selective chaperone that
effectively channels TA proteins to the TRC40 insertion pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09296 
PMCID: PMC2928861
PMID: 20676083  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1098-101. doi: 10.1038/nature09329. Epub 2010 Jul
28.

Global patterns and predictors of marine biodiversity across taxa.

Tittensor DP(1), Mora C, Jetz W, Lotze HK, Ricard D, Berghe EV, Worm B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Dalhousie University, 1355 Oxford Street, Halifax B3H
4J1, Canada. derekt@mathstat.dal.ca

Global patterns of species richness and their structuring forces have fascinated 
biologists since Darwin and provide critical context for contemporary studies in 
ecology, evolution and conservation. Anthropogenic impacts and the need for
systematic conservation planning have further motivated the analysis of diversity
patterns and processes at regional to global scales. Whereas land diversity
patterns and their predictors are known for numerous taxa, our understanding of
global marine diversity has been more limited, with recent findings revealing
some striking contrasts to widely held terrestrial paradigms. Here we examine
global patterns and predictors of species richness across 13 major species groups
ranging from zooplankton to marine mammals. Two major patterns emerged: coastal
species showed maximum diversity in the Western Pacific, whereas oceanic groups
consistently peaked across broad mid-latitudinal bands in all oceans. Spatial
regression analyses revealed sea surface temperature as the only environmental
predictor highly related to diversity across all 13 taxa. Habitat availability
and historical factors were also important for coastal species, whereas other
predictors had less significance. Areas of high species richness were
disproportionately concentrated in regions with medium or higher human impacts.
Our findings indicate a fundamental role of temperature or kinetic energy in
structuring cross-taxon marine biodiversity, and indicate that changes in ocean
temperature, in conjunction with other human impacts, may ultimately rearrange
the global distribution of life in the ocean.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09329 
PMID: 20668450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1125-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09343.

NRMT is an alpha-N-methyltransferase that methylates RCC1 and retinoblastoma
protein.

Tooley CE(1), Petkowski JJ, Muratore-Schroeder TL, Balsbaugh JL, Shabanowitz J,
Sabat M, Minor W, Hunt DF, Macara IG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Center for Cell Signaling, University of Virginia 
School of Medicine, Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA. ces5g@virginia.edu

The post-translational methylation of alpha-amino groups was first discovered
over 30 years ago on the bacterial ribosomal proteins L16 and L33 (refs 1, 2),
but almost nothing is known about the function or enzymology of this
modification. Several other bacterial and eukaryotic proteins have since been
shown to be alpha-N-methylated. However, the Ran guanine nucleotide-exchange
factor, RCC1, is the only protein for which any biological function of
alpha-N-methylation has been identified. Methylation-defective mutants of RCC1
have reduced affinity for DNA and cause mitotic defects, but further
characterization of this modification has been hindered by ignorance of the
responsible methyltransferase. All fungal and animal N-terminally methylated
proteins contain a unique N-terminal motif, Met-(Ala/Pro/Ser)-Pro-Lys, indicating
that they may be targets of the same, unknown enzyme. The initiating Met is
cleaved, and the exposed alpha-amino group is mono-, di- or trimethylated. Here
we report the discovery of the first alpha-N-methyltransferase, which we named
N-terminal RCC1 methyltransferase (NRMT). Substrate docking and mutational
analysis of RCC1 defined the NRMT recognition sequence and enabled the
identification of numerous new methylation targets, including SET (also known as 
TAF-I or PHAPII) and the retinoblastoma protein, RB. Knockdown of NRMT
recapitulates the multi-spindle phenotype seen with methylation-defective RCC1
mutants, demonstrating the importance of alpha-N-methylation for normal bipolar
spindle formation and chromosome segregation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09343 
PMCID: PMC2939154
PMID: 20668449  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1129-33. doi: 10.1038/nature09303.

Role of Tet proteins in 5mC to 5hmC conversion, ES-cell self-renewal and inner
cell mass specification.

Ito S(1), D'Alessio AC, Taranova OV, Hong K, Sowers LC, Zhang Y.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute.

DNA methylation is one of the best-characterized epigenetic modifications.
Although the enzymes that catalyse DNA methylation have been characterized,
enzymes responsible for demethylation have been elusive. A recent study indicates
that the human TET1 protein could catalyse the conversion of 5-methylcytosine
(5mC) of DNA to 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC), raising the possibility that DNA 
demethylation may be a Tet1-mediated process. Here we extend this study by
demonstrating that all three mouse Tet proteins (Tet1, Tet2 and Tet3) can also
catalyse a similar reaction. Tet1 has an important role in mouse embryonic stem
(ES) cell maintenance through maintaining the expression of Nanog in ES cells.
Downregulation of Nanog via Tet1 knockdown correlates with methylation of the
Nanog promoter, supporting a role for Tet1 in regulating DNA methylation status. 
Furthermore, knockdown of Tet1 in pre-implantation embryos results in a bias
towards trophectoderm differentiation. Thus, our studies not only uncover the
enzymatic activity of the Tet proteins, but also demonstrate a role for Tet1 in
ES cell maintenance and inner cell mass cell specification.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09303 
PMCID: PMC3491567
PMID: 20639862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1105-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09271. Epub 2010 Jul 11.

A novel pathway regulates memory and plasticity via SIRT1 and miR-134.

Gao J(1), Wang WY, Mao YW, Gräff J, Guan JS, Pan L, Mak G, Kim D, Su SC, Tsai LH.

Author information: 
(1)Picower Institute for Learning and Memory, Department of Brain and Cognitive
Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, 
USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2010 Sep;11(9):612.

The NAD-dependent deacetylase Sir2 was initially identified as a mediator of
replicative lifespan in budding yeast and was subsequently shown to modulate
longevity in worms and flies. Its mammalian homologue, SIRT1, seems to have
evolved complex systemic roles in cardiac function, DNA repair and genomic
stability. Recent studies suggest a functional relevance of SIRT1 in normal brain
physiology and neurological disorders. However, it is unknown if SIRT1 has a role
in higher-order brain functions. We report that SIRT1 modulates synaptic
plasticity and memory formation via a microRNA-mediated mechanism. Activation of 
SIRT1 enhances, whereas its loss-of-function impairs, synaptic plasticity.
Surprisingly, these effects were mediated via post-transcriptional regulation of 
cAMP response binding protein (CREB) expression by a brain-specific microRNA,
miR-134. SIRT1 normally functions to limit expression of miR-134 via a repressor 
complex containing the transcription factor YY1, and unchecked miR-134 expression
following SIRT1 deficiency results in the downregulated expression of CREB and
brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), thereby impairing synaptic plasticity. 
These findings demonstrate a new role for SIRT1 in cognition and a previously
unknown microRNA-based mechanism by which SIRT1 regulates these processes.
Furthermore, these results describe a separate branch of SIRT1 signalling, in
which SIRT1 has a direct role in regulating normal brain function in a manner
that is disparate from its cell survival functions, demonstrating its value as a 
potential therapeutic target for the treatment of central nervous system
disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09271 
PMCID: PMC2928875
PMID: 20622856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):1001-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09302.

Crystal structure of the alpha(6)beta(6) holoenzyme of propionyl-coenzyme A
carboxylase.

Huang CS(1), Sadre-Bazzaz K, Shen Y, Deng B, Zhou ZH, Tong L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Columbia University, New York, New York
10027, USA.

Propionyl-coenzyme A carboxylase (PCC), a mitochondrial biotin-dependent enzyme, 
is essential for the catabolism of the amino acids Thr, Val, Ile and Met,
cholesterol and fatty acids with an odd number of carbon atoms. Deficiencies in
PCC activity in humans are linked to the disease propionic acidaemia, an
autosomal recessive disorder that can be fatal in infants. The holoenzyme of PCC 
is an alpha(6)beta(6) dodecamer, with a molecular mass of 750 kDa. The
alpha-subunit contains the biotin carboxylase (BC) and biotin carboxyl carrier
protein (BCCP) domains, whereas the beta-subunit supplies the carboxyltransferase
(CT) activity. Here we report the crystal structure at 3.2-A resolution of a
bacterial PCC alpha(6)beta(6) holoenzyme as well as cryo-electron microscopy
(cryo-EM) reconstruction at 15-A resolution demonstrating a similar structure for
human PCC. The structure defines the overall architecture of PCC and reveals
unexpectedly that the alpha-subunits are arranged as monomers in the holoenzyme, 
decorating a central beta(6) hexamer. A hitherto unrecognized domain in the
alpha-subunit, formed by residues between the BC and BCCP domains, is crucial for
interactions with the beta-subunit. We have named it the BT domain. The structure
reveals for the first time the relative positions of the BC and CT active sites
in the holoenzyme. They are separated by approximately 55 A, indicating that the 
entire BCCP domain must translocate during catalysis. The BCCP domain is located 
in the active site of the beta-subunit in the current structure, providing
insight for its involvement in the CT reaction. The structural information
establishes a molecular basis for understanding the large collection of
disease-causing mutations in PCC and is relevant for the holoenzymes of other
biotin-dependent carboxylases, including 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase (MCC)
and eukaryotic acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC).

DOI: 10.1038/nature09302 
PMCID: PMC2925307
PMID: 20725044  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):992-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09295.

A mechanically stabilized receptor-ligand flex-bond important in the vasculature.

Kim J(1), Zhang CZ, Zhang X, Springer TA.

Author information: 
(1)Immune Disease Institute, Children's Hospital Boston and Department of
Pathology, Harvard Medical School, 3 Blackfan Circle, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

Haemostasis in the arteriolar circulation mediated by von Willebrand factor (VWF)
binding to platelets is an example of an adhesive interaction that must withstand
strong hydrodynamic forces acting on cells. VWF is a concatenated,
multifunctional protein that has binding sites for platelets as well as
subendothelial collagen. Binding of the A1 domain in VWF to the glycoprotein Ib
alpha subunit (GPIbalpha) on the surface of platelets mediates crosslinking of
platelets to one another and the formation of a platelet plug for arterioles. The
importance of VWF is illustrated by its mutation in von Willebrand disease, a
bleeding diathesis. Here, we describe a novel mechanochemical specialization of
the A1-GPIbalpha bond for force-resistance. We have developed a method that
enables, for the first time, repeated measurements of the binding and unbinding
of a receptor and ligand in a single molecule (ReaLiSM). We demonstrate two
states of the receptor-ligand bond, that is, a flex-bond. One state is seen at
low force; a second state begins to engage at 10 pN with a approximately 20-fold 
longer lifetime and greater force resistance. The lifetimes of the two states,
how force exponentiates lifetime, and the kinetics of switching between the two
states are all measured. For the first time, single-molecule measurements on this
system are in agreement with bulk phase measurements. The results have important 
implications not only for how platelets bound to VWF are able to resist force to 
plug arterioles, but also how increased flow activates platelet plug formation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09295 
PMCID: PMC4117310
PMID: 20725043  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):983-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09308.

Trans-acting small RNA determines dominance relationships in Brassica
self-incompatibility.

Tarutani Y(1), Shiba H, Iwano M, Kakizaki T, Suzuki G, Watanabe M, Isogai A,
Takayama S.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Biological Sciences, Nara Institute of Science and
Technology, 8916-5 Takayama, Ikoma 630-0192, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):926-8.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2010 Oct;11(10):670-1.

A diploid organism has two copies of each gene, one inherited from each parent.
The expression of two inherited alleles is sometimes biased by the effects known 
as dominant/recessive relationships, which determine the final phenotype of the
organism. To explore the mechanisms underlying these relationships, we have
examined the monoallelic expression of S-locus protein 11 genes (SP11), which
encode the male determinants of self-incompatibility in Brassica. We previously
reported that SP11 expression was monoallelic in some S heterozygotes, and that
the promoter regions of recessive SP11 alleles were specifically methylated in
the anther tapetum. Here we show that this methylation is controlled by
trans-acting small non-coding RNA (sRNA). We identified inverted genomic
sequences that were similar to the recessive SP11 promoters in the flanking
regions of dominant SP11 alleles. These sequences were specifically expressed in 
the anther tapetum and processed into 24-nucleotide sRNA, named SP11 methylation 
inducer (Smi). Introduction of the Smi genomic region into the recessive S
homozygotes triggered the methylation of the promoter of recessive SP11 alleles
and repressed their transcription. This is an example showing sRNA encoded in the
flanking region of a dominant allele acts in trans to induce transcriptional
silencing of the recessive allele. Our finding may provide new insights into the 
widespread monoallelic gene expression systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09308 
PMID: 20725042  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):978-82. doi: 10.1038/nature09269.

Microenvironmental reprogramming of thymic epithelial cells to skin multipotent
stem cells.

Bonfanti P(1), Claudinot S, Amici AW, Farley A, Blackburn CC, Barrandon Y.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Stem Cell Dynamics, School of Life Sciences, Ecole Polytechnique
Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL), 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2010 Oct 8;7(4):419-20.

The thymus develops from the third pharyngeal pouch of the anterior gut and
provides the necessary environment for thymopoiesis (the process by which
thymocytes differentiate into mature T lymphocytes) and the establishment and
maintenance of self-tolerance. It contains thymic epithelial cells (TECs) that
form a complex three-dimensional network organized in cortical and medullary
compartments, the organization of which is notably different from simple or
stratified epithelia. TECs have an essential role in the generation of
self-tolerant thymocytes through expression of the autoimmune regulator Aire, but
the mechanisms involved in the specification and maintenance of TECs remain
unclear. Despite the different embryological origins of thymus and skin
(endodermal and ectodermal, respectively), some cells of the thymic medulla
express stratified-epithelium markers, interpreted as promiscuous gene
expression. Here we show that the thymus of the rat contains a population of
clonogenic TECs that can be extensively cultured while conserving the capacity to
integrate in a thymic epithelial network and to express major histocompatibility 
complex class II (MHC II) molecules and Aire. These cells can irreversibly adopt 
the fate of hair follicle multipotent stem cells when exposed to an inductive
skin microenvironment; this change in fate is correlated with robust changes in
gene expression. Hence, microenvironmental cues are sufficient here to re-direct 
epithelial cell fate, allowing crossing of primitive germ layer boundaries and an
increase in potency.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09269 
PMID: 20725041  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):973-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09247.

An interferon-inducible neutrophil-driven blood transcriptional signature in
human tuberculosis.

Berry MP(1), Graham CM, McNab FW, Xu Z, Bloch SA, Oni T, Wilkinson KA, Banchereau
R, Skinner J, Wilkinson RJ, Quinn C, Blankenship D, Dhawan R, Cush JJ, Mejias A, 
Ramilo O, Kon OM, Pascual V, Banchereau J, Chaussabel D, O'Garra A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Immunoregulation, MRC National Institute for Medical Research, The
Ridgeway, Mill Hill, London NW7 1AA, UK.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2010 Oct;10(10):677.

Tuberculosis (TB), caused by infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis, is a
major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Efforts to control it are
hampered by difficulties with diagnosis, prevention and treatment. Most people
infected with M. tuberculosis remain asymptomatic, termed latent TB, with a 10%
lifetime risk of developing active TB disease. Current tests, however, cannot
identify which individuals will develop disease. The immune response to M.
tuberculosis is complex and incompletely characterized, hindering development of 
new diagnostics, therapies and vaccines. Here we identify a whole-blood 393
transcript signature for active TB in intermediate and high-burden settings,
correlating with radiological extent of disease and reverting to that of healthy 
controls after treatment. A subset of patients with latent TB had signatures
similar to those in patients with active TB. We also identify a specific
86-transcript signature that discriminates active TB from other inflammatory and 
infectious diseases. Modular and pathway analysis revealed that the TB signature 
was dominated by a neutrophil-driven interferon (IFN)-inducible gene profile,
consisting of both IFN-gamma and type I IFN-alphabeta signalling. Comparison with
transcriptional signatures in purified cells and flow cytometric analysis suggest
that this TB signature reflects changes in cellular composition and altered gene 
expression. Although an IFN-inducible signature was also observed in whole blood 
of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), their complete modular
signature differed from TB, with increased abundance of plasma cell transcripts. 
Our studies demonstrate a hitherto underappreciated role of type I IFN-alphabeta 
signalling in the pathogenesis of TB, which has implications for vaccine and
therapeutic development. Our study also provides a broad range of transcriptional
biomarkers with potential as diagnostic and prognostic tools to combat the TB
epidemic.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09247 
PMCID: PMC3492754
PMID: 20725040  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):969-72. doi: 10.1038/nature09335.

Promiscuity and the evolutionary transition to complex societies.

Cornwallis CK(1), West SA, Davis KE, Griffin AS.

Author information: 
(1)Edward Grey Institute, Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, South
Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3PS, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):930-1.

Theory predicts that the evolution of cooperative behaviour is favoured by low
levels of promiscuity leading to high within-group relatedness. However, in
vertebrates, cooperation often occurs between non-relatives and promiscuity rates
are among the highest recorded. Here we resolve this apparent inconsistency with 
a phylogenetic analysis of 267 bird species, demonstrating that cooperative
breeding is associated with low promiscuity; that in cooperative species, helping
is more common when promiscuity is low; and that intermediate levels of
promiscuity favour kin discrimination. Overall, these results suggest that
promiscuity is a unifying feature across taxa in explaining transitions to and
from cooperative societies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09335 
PMID: 20725039  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):964-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09214.

The 2009 Samoa-Tonga great earthquake triggered doublet.

Lay T(1), Ammon CJ, Kanamori H, Rivera L, Koper KD, Hutko AR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, University of California Santa
Cruz, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA. tlay@ucsc.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):931-2.

Great earthquakes (having seismic magnitudes of at least 8) usually involve
abrupt sliding of rock masses at a boundary between tectonic plates. Such
interplate ruptures produce dynamic and static stress changes that can activate
nearby intraplate aftershocks, as is commonly observed in the trench-slope region
seaward of a great subduction zone thrust event. The earthquake sequence
addressed here involves a rare instance in which a great trench-slope intraplate 
earthquake triggered extensive interplate faulting, reversing the typical pattern
and broadly expanding the seismic and tsunami hazard. On 29 September 2009,
within two minutes of the initiation of a normal faulting event with moment
magnitude 8.1 in the outer trench-slope at the northern end of the Tonga
subduction zone, two major interplate underthrusting subevents (both with moment 
magnitude 7.8), with total moment equal to a second great earthquake of moment
magnitude 8.0, ruptured the nearby subduction zone megathrust. The collective
faulting produced tsunami waves with localized regions of about 12 metres run-up 
that claimed 192 lives in Samoa, American Samoa and Tonga. Overlap of the seismic
signals obscured the fact that distinct faults separated by more than 50 km had
ruptured with different geometries, with the triggered thrust faulting only being
revealed by detailed seismic wave analyses. Extensive interplate and intraplate
aftershock activity was activated over a large region of the northern Tonga
subduction zone.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09214 
PMID: 20725038 


328. Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):959-63. doi: 10.1038/nature09292.

Near-simultaneous great earthquakes at Tongan megathrust and outer rise in
September 2009.

Beavan J(1), Wang X, Holden C, Wilson K, Power W, Prasetya G, Bevis M, Kautoke R.

Author information: 
(1)GNS Science, PO Box 30368, Lower Hutt 5040, New Zealand. j.beavan@gns.cri.nz

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):931-2.

The Earth's largest earthquakes and tsunamis are usually caused by
thrust-faulting earthquakes on the shallow part of the subduction interface
between two tectonic plates, where stored elastic energy due to convergence
between the plates is rapidly released. The tsunami that devastated the Samoan
and northern Tongan islands on 29 September 2009 was preceded by a globally
recorded magnitude-8 normal-faulting earthquake in the outer-rise region, where
the Pacific plate bends before entering the subduction zone. Preliminary
interpretation suggested that this earthquake was the source of the tsunami. Here
we show that the outer-rise earthquake was accompanied by a nearly simultaneous
rupture of the shallow subduction interface, equivalent to a magnitude-8
earthquake, that also contributed significantly to the tsunami. The subduction
interface event was probably a slow earthquake with a rise time of several
minutes that triggered the outer-rise event several minutes later. However, we
cannot rule out the possibility that the normal fault ruptured first and
dynamically triggered the subduction interface event. Our evidence comes from
displacements of Global Positioning System stations and modelling of tsunami
waves recorded by ocean-bottom pressure sensors, with support from seismic data
and tsunami field observations. Evidence of the subduction earthquake in global
seismic data is largely hidden because of the earthquake's slow rise time or
because its ground motion is disguised by that of the normal-faulting event.
Earthquake doublets where subduction interface events trigger large outer-rise
earthquakes have been recorded previously, but this is the first well-documented 
example where the two events occur so closely in time and the triggering event
might be a slow earthquake. As well as providing information on strain release
mechanisms at subduction zones, earthquakes such as this provide a possible
mechanism for the occasional large tsunamis generated at the Tonga subduction
zone, where slip between the plates is predominantly aseismic.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09292 
PMID: 20725037 


329. Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):954-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09331.

A strong ferroelectric ferromagnet created by means of spin-lattice coupling.

Lee JH(1), Fang L, Vlahos E, Ke X, Jung YW, Kourkoutis LF, Kim JW, Ryan PJ, Heeg 
T, Roeckerath M, Goian V, Bernhagen M, Uecker R, Hammel PC, Rabe KM, Kamba S,
Schubert J, Freeland JW, Muller DA, Fennie CJ, Schiffer P, Gopalan V,
Johnston-Halperin E, Schlom DG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca,
New York 14853-1501, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 4;476(7358):114.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 4;476(7358):114.

Ferroelectric ferromagnets are exceedingly rare, fundamentally interesting
multiferroic materials that could give rise to new technologies in which the low 
power and high speed of field-effect electronics are combined with the permanence
and routability of voltage-controlled ferromagnetism. Furthermore, the properties
of the few compounds that simultaneously exhibit these phenomena are
insignificant in comparison with those of useful ferroelectrics or ferromagnets: 
their spontaneous polarizations or magnetizations are smaller by a factor of
1,000 or more. The same holds for magnetic- or electric-field-induced
multiferroics. Owing to the weak properties of single-phase multiferroics,
composite and multilayer approaches involving strain-coupled piezoelectric and
magnetostrictive components are the closest to application today. Recently,
however, a new route to ferroelectric ferromagnets was proposed by which
magnetically ordered insulators that are neither ferroelectric nor ferromagnetic 
are transformed into ferroelectric ferromagnets using a single control parameter,
strain. The system targeted, EuTiO(3), was predicted to exhibit strong
ferromagnetism (spontaneous magnetization, approximately 7 Bohr magnetons per Eu)
and strong ferroelectricity (spontaneous polarization, approximately 10 microC
cm(-2)) simultaneously under large biaxial compressive strain. These values are
orders of magnitude higher than those of any known ferroelectric ferromagnet and 
rival the best materials that are solely ferroelectric or ferromagnetic. Hindered
by the absence of an appropriate substrate to provide the desired compression we 
turned to tensile strain. Here we show both experimentally and theoretically the 
emergence of a multiferroic state under biaxial tension with the unexpected
benefit that even lower strains are required, thereby allowing thicker
high-quality crystalline films. This realization of a strong ferromagnetic
ferroelectric points the way to high-temperature manifestations of this
spin-lattice coupling mechanism. Our work demonstrates that a single experimental
parameter, strain, simultaneously controls multiple order parameters and is a
viable alternative tuning parameter to composition for creating multiferroics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09331 
PMID: 20725036  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):950-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09293.

Enhancement of superconductivity by pressure-driven competition in electronic
order.

Chen XJ(1), Struzhkin VV, Yu Y, Goncharov AF, Lin CT, Mao HK, Hemley RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Geophysical Laboratory, Carnegie Institution of Washington, Washington DC
20015, USA. xjchen@ciw.edu

Finding ways to achieve higher values of the transition temperature, T(c), in
superconductors remains a great challenge. The superconducting phase is often one
of several competing types of electronic order, including antiferromagnetism and 
charge density waves. An emerging trend documented in heavy-fermion and organic
conductors is that the maximum T(c) for superconductivity occurs under external
conditions that cause the critical temperature for a competing order to go to
zero. Recently, such competition has been found in multilayer copper oxide
high-temperature superconductors (HTSCs) that possess two crystallographically
inequivalent CuO(2) planes in the unit cell. However, whether the competing
electronic state can be suppressed to enhance T(c) in HTSCs remains an open
question. Here we show that pressure-driven phase competition leads to an unusual
two-step enhancement of T(c) in optimally doped trilayer
Bi(2)Sr(2)Ca(2)Cu(3)O(10+delta) (Bi2223). We find that T(c) first increases with 
pressure and then decreases after passing through a maximum. Unexpectedly, T(c)
increases again when the pressure is further raised above a critical value of
around 24 GPa, surpassing the first maximum. The presence of this critical
pressure is a manifestation of the crossover from the competing order to
superconductivity in the inner of the three CuO(2) planes. We suggest that the
increase at higher pressures occurs as a result of competition between pairing
and phase ordering in different CuO(2) planes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09293 
PMID: 20725035 


331. Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):947-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09289.

Waves on the surface of the Orion molecular cloud.

Berné O(1), Marcelino N, Cernicharo J.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Astrobiología, CSIC/INTA, Carretera de Torrejón a Ajalvir, km 4,
28850 Torrejón de Ardoz, Spain. berne@strw.leidenuniv.nl

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):928-9.

Massive stars influence their parental molecular cloud, and it has long been
suspected that the development of hydrodynamical instabilities can compress or
fragment the cloud. Identifying such instabilities has proved difficult. It has
been suggested that elongated structures (such as the 'pillars of creation') and 
other shapes arise because of instabilities, but alternative explanations are
available. One key signature of an instability is a wave-like structure in the
gas, which has hitherto not been seen. Here we report the presence of 'waves' at 
the surface of the Orion molecular cloud near where massive stars are forming.
The waves seem to be a Kelvin-Helmholtz instability that arises during the
expansion of the nebula as gas heated and ionized by massive stars is blown over 
pre-existing molecular gas.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09289 
PMID: 20725034  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):941-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09297.

Non-canonical inhibition of DNA damage-dependent ubiquitination by OTUB1.

Nakada S(1), Tai I, Panier S, Al-Hakim A, Iemura S, Juang YC, O'Donnell L,
Kumakubo A, Munro M, Sicheri F, Gingras AC, Natsume T, Suda T, Durocher D.

Author information: 
(1)Center of Integrated Medical Research, School of Medicine, Keio University, 35
Shinano-machi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, 160-8582, Japan. snakada@z3.keio.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):929-30.

DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) pose a potent threat to genome integrity. These
lesions also contribute to the efficacy of radiotherapy and many cancer
chemotherapeutics. DSBs elicit a signalling cascade that modifies the chromatin
surrounding the break, first by ATM-dependent phosphorylation and then by RNF8-, 
RNF168- and BRCA1-dependent regulatory ubiquitination. Here we report that OTUB1,
a deubiquitinating enzyme, is an inhibitor of DSB-induced chromatin
ubiquitination. Surprisingly, we found that OTUB1 suppresses RNF168-dependent
poly-ubiquitination independently of its catalytic activity. OTUB1 does so by
binding to and inhibiting UBC13 (also known as UBE2N), the cognate E2 enzyme for 
RNF168. This unusual mode of regulation is unlikely to be limited to UBC13
because analysis of OTUB1-associated proteins revealed that OTUB1 binds to E2s of
the UBE2D and UBE2E subfamilies. Finally, OTUB1 depletion mitigates the DSB
repair defect associated with defective ATM signalling, indicating that
pharmacological targeting of the OTUB1-UBC13 interaction might enhance the DNA
damage response.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09297 
PMID: 20725033  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):E8; discussion E9. doi: 10.1038/nature09219.

Inferring echolocation in ancient bats.

Simmons NB(1), Seymour KL, Habersetzer J, Gunnell GF.

Author information: 
(1)American Museum of Natural History, Central Park West at 79th Street, New
York, New York 10024, USA. simmons@amnh.org

Comment on
    Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):939-42.

Laryngeal echolocation, used by most living bats to form images of their
surroundings and to detect and capture flying prey, is considered to be a key
innovation for the evolutionary success of bats, and palaeontologists have long
sought osteological correlates of echolocation that can be used to infer the
behaviour of fossil bats. Veselka et al. argued that the most reliable trait
indicating echolocation capabilities in bats is an articulation between the
stylohyal bone (part of the hyoid apparatus that supports the throat and larynx) 
and the tympanic bone, which forms the floor of the middle ear. They examined the
oldest and most primitive known bat, Onychonycteris finneyi (early Eocene, USA), 
and argued that it showed evidence of this stylohyal-tympanic articulation, from 
which they concluded that O. finneyi may have been capable of echolocation. We
disagree with their interpretation of key fossil data and instead argue that O.
finneyi was probably not an echolocating bat.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09219 
PMID: 20724993  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):E6; discussion E7. doi: 10.1038/nature09156.

Laryngeally echolocating bats.

Wittrock U(1).

Author information: 
(1)Münster University of Applied Sciences, Stegerwaldstr. 39, 48565 Steinfurt,
Germany. wittrock@fh-muenster.de

Comment on
    Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):939-42.

Echolocation of bats is a fascinating topic with an ongoing controversy regarding
the signal processing that bats perform on the echo. Veselka et al. found that
bats that use the larynx for producing the echolocating ultrasound have a
stylohyal bone that connects the larynx to the auditory bulla. I propose that the
stylohyal bone is used for heterodyne detection of Doppler-shifted echoes. This
would allow very precise frequency resolution and phase-sensitive analysis of the
returning echoes for determining the velocity of echolocated objects like
insects.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09156 
PMID: 20724991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):935-40. doi: 10.1038/nature09197. Epub 2010 Aug 4.

Type IIA topoisomerase inhibition by a new class of antibacterial agents.

Bax BD(1), Chan PF, Eggleston DS, Fosberry A, Gentry DR, Gorrec F, Giordano I,
Hann MM, Hennessy A, Hibbs M, Huang J, Jones E, Jones J, Brown KK, Lewis CJ, May 
EW, Saunders MR, Singh O, Spitzfaden CE, Shen C, Shillings A, Theobald AJ,
Wohlkonig A, Pearson ND, Gwynn MN.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Discovery Research, GlaxoSmithKline, Medicines Research Centre,
Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, Hertfordshire, SG1 2NY, UK. benjamin.d.bax@gsk.com

Despite the success of genomics in identifying new essential bacterial genes,
there is a lack of sustainable leads in antibacterial drug discovery to address
increasing multidrug resistance. Type IIA topoisomerases cleave and religate DNA 
to regulate DNA topology and are a major class of antibacterial and anticancer
drug targets, yet there is no well developed structural basis for understanding
drug action. Here we report the 2.1 A crystal structure of a potent, new class,
broad-spectrum antibacterial agent in complex with Staphylococcus aureus DNA
gyrase and DNA, showing a new mode of inhibition that circumvents fluoroquinolone
resistance in this clinically important drug target. The inhibitor 'bridges' the 
DNA and a transient non-catalytic pocket on the two-fold axis at the GyrA dimer
interface, and is close to the active sites and fluoroquinolone binding sites. In
the inhibitor complex the active site seems poised to cleave the DNA, with a
single metal ion observed between the TOPRIM (topoisomerase/primase) domain and
the scissile phosphate. This work provides new insights into the mechanism of
topoisomerase action and a platform for structure-based drug design of a new
class of antibacterial agents against a clinically proven, but conformationally
flexible, enzyme class.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09197 
PMID: 20686482  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):996-1000. doi: 10.1038/nature09300. Epub 2010 Aug
1.

Structure of the torque ring of the flagellar motor and the molecular basis for
rotational switching.

Lee LK(1), Ginsburg MA, Crovace C, Donohoe M, Stock D.

Author information: 
(1)Structural and Computational Biology Division, The Victor Chang Cardiac
Research Institute, Lowy Packer Building, 405 Liverpool Street, Darlinghurst, New
South Wales 2010, Australia.

The flagellar motor drives the rotation of flagellar filaments at hundreds of
revolutions per second, efficiently propelling bacteria through viscous media.
The motor uses the potential energy from an electrochemical gradient of cations
across the cytoplasmic membrane to generate torque. A rapid switch from
anticlockwise to clockwise rotation determines whether a bacterium runs smoothly 
forward or tumbles to change its trajectory. A protein called FliG forms a ring
in the rotor of the flagellar motor that is involved in the generation of torque 
through an interaction with the cation-channel-forming stator subunit MotA. FliG 
has been suggested to adopt distinct conformations that induce switching but
these structural changes and the molecular mechanism of switching are unknown.
Here we report the molecular structure of the full-length FliG protein, identify 
conformational changes that are involved in rotational switching and uncover the 
structural basis for the formation of the FliG torque ring. This allows us to
propose a model of the complete ring and switching mechanism in which
conformational changes in FliG reverse the electrostatic charges involved in
torque generation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09300 
PMCID: PMC3159035
PMID: 20676082  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):987-91. doi: 10.1038/nature09290. Epub 2010 Jul 14.

Regulation of heterochromatic DNA replication by histone H3 lysine 27
methyltransferases.

Jacob Y(1), Stroud H, Leblanc C, Feng S, Zhuo L, Caro E, Hassel C, Gutierrez C,
Michaels SD, Jacobsen SE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Indiana University, 915 East Third Street, Bloomington,
Indiana 47405, USA.

Multiple pathways prevent DNA replication from occurring more than once per cell 
cycle. These pathways block re-replication by strictly controlling the activity
of pre-replication complexes, which assemble at specific sites in the genome
called origins. Here we show that mutations in the homologous histone 3 lysine 27
(H3K27) monomethyltransferases, ARABIDOPSIS TRITHORAX-RELATED PROTEIN5 (ATXR5)
and ATXR6, lead to re-replication of specific genomic locations. Most of these
locations correspond to transposons and other repetitive and silent elements of
the Arabidopsis genome. These sites also correspond to high levels of H3K27
monomethylation, and mutation of the catalytic SET domain is sufficient to cause 
the re-replication defect. Mutation of ATXR5 and ATXR6 also causes upregulation
of transposon expression and has pleiotropic effects on plant development. These 
results uncover a novel pathway that prevents over-replication of heterochromatin
in Arabidopsis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09290 
PMCID: PMC2964344
PMID: 20631708  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Nature. 2010 Aug 12;466(7308):883-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09200.

Structure of the LexA-DNA complex and implications for SOS box measurement.

Zhang AP(1), Pigli YZ, Rice PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, The University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637,
USA.

The eubacterial SOS system is a paradigm of cellular DNA damage and repair, and
its activation can contribute to antibiotic resistance. Under normal conditions, 
LexA represses the transcription of many DNA repair proteins by binding to SOS
'boxes' in their operators. Under genotoxic stress, accumulating complexes of
RecA, ATP and single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) activate LexA for autocleavage. To
address how LexA recognizes its binding sites, we determined three crystal
structures of Escherichia coli LexA in complex with SOS boxes. Here we report the
structure of these LexA-DNA complexes. The DNA-binding domains of the LexA dimer 
interact with the DNA in the classical fashion of a winged helix-turn-helix
motif. However, the wings of these two DNA-binding domains bind to the same minor
groove of the DNA. These wing-wing contacts may explain why the spacing between
the two half-sites of E. coli SOS boxes is invariant.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09200 
PMCID: PMC2921665
PMID: 20703307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Nature. 2010 Aug 12;466(7308):864-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09282.

Amygdalar and hippocampal substrates of anxious temperament differ in their
heritability.

Oler JA(1), Fox AS, Shelton SE, Rogers J, Dyer TD, Davidson RJ, Shelledy W, Oakes
TR, Blangero J, Kalin NH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin 
53719, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 12;466(7308):827-8.

Anxious temperament (AT) in human and non-human primates is a trait-like
phenotype evident early in life that is characterized by increased behavioural
and physiological reactivity to mildly threatening stimuli. Studies in children
demonstrate that AT is an important risk factor for the later development of
anxiety disorders, depression and comorbid substance abuse. Despite its
importance as an early predictor of psychopathology, little is known about the
factors that predispose vulnerable children to develop AT and the brain systems
that underlie its expression. To characterize the neural circuitry associated
with AT and the extent to which the function of this circuit is heritable, we
studied a large sample of rhesus monkeys phenotyped for AT. Using 238 young
monkeys from a multigenerational single-family pedigree, we simultaneously
assessed brain metabolic activity and AT while monkeys were exposed to the
relevant ethological condition that elicits the phenotype. High-resolution
(18)F-labelled deoxyglucose positron-emission tomography (FDG-PET) was selected
as the imaging modality because it provides semi-quantitative indices of absolute
glucose metabolic rate, allows for simultaneous measurement of behaviour and
brain activity, and has a time course suited for assessing temperament-associated
sustained brain responses. Here we demonstrate that the central nucleus region of
the amygdala and the anterior hippocampus are key components of the neural
circuit predictive of AT. We also show significant heritability of the AT
phenotype by using quantitative genetic analysis. Additionally, using voxelwise
analyses, we reveal significant heritability of metabolic activity in
AT-associated hippocampal regions. However, activity in the amygdala region
predictive of AT is not significantly heritable. Furthermore, the heritabilities 
of the hippocampal and amygdala regions significantly differ from each other.
Even though these structures are closely linked, the results suggest differential
influences of genes and environment on how these brain regions mediate AT and the
ongoing risk of developing anxiety and depression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09282 
PMCID: PMC2998538
PMID: 20703306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Nature. 2010 Aug 12;466(7308):857-60. doi: 10.1038/nature09248.

Evidence for stone-tool-assisted consumption of animal tissues before 3.39
million years ago at Dikika, Ethiopia.

McPherron SP(1), Alemseged Z, Marean CW, Wynn JG, Reed D, Geraads D, Bobe R,
Béarat HA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Evolution, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology, DeutscherPlatz 6, Leipzig 04103, Germany. mcpherron@eva.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 12;466(7308):828.

The oldest direct evidence of stone tool manufacture comes from Gona (Ethiopia)
and dates to between 2.6 and 2.5 million years (Myr) ago. At the nearby Bouri
site several cut-marked bones also show stone tool use approximately 2.5 Myr ago.
Here we report stone-tool-inflicted marks on bones found during recent survey
work in Dikika, Ethiopia, a research area close to Gona and Bouri. On the basis
of low-power microscopic and environmental scanning electron microscope
observations, these bones show unambiguous stone-tool cut marks for flesh removal
and percussion marks for marrow access. The bones derive from the Sidi Hakoma
Member of the Hadar Formation. Established (40)Ar-(39)Ar dates on the tuffs that 
bracket this member constrain the finds to between 3.42 and 3.24 Myr ago, and
stratigraphic scaling between these units and other geological evidence indicate 
that they are older than 3.39 Myr ago. Our discovery extends by approximately
800,000 years the antiquity of stone tools and of stone-tool-assisted consumption
of ungulates by hominins; furthermore, this behaviour can now be attributed to
Australopithecus afarensis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09248 
PMID: 20703305  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Nature. 2010 Aug 12;466(7308):853-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09287.

Evidence for the survival of the oldest terrestrial mantle reservoir.

Jackson MG(1), Carlson RW, Kurz MD, Kempton PD, Francis D, Blusztajn J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, Boston University, 675 Commonwealth Avenue,
Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA. jacksonm@bu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 12;466(7308):822-3.

Helium is a powerful tracer of primitive material in Earth's mantle. Extremely
high (3)He/(4)He ratios in some ocean-island basalts suggest the presence of
relatively undegassed and undifferentiated material preserved in Earth's mantle. 
However, terrestrial lavas with high (3)He/(4)He ratios have never been observed 
to host the primitive lead-isotopic compositions that are required for an early
(roughly 4.5 Gyr ago) formation age. Here we show that Cenozoic-era Baffin Island
and West Greenland lavas, previously found to host the highest terrestrial-mantle
(3)He/(4)He ratios, exhibit primitive lead-isotope ratios that are consistent
with an ancient mantle source age of 4.55-4.45 Gyr. The Baffin Island and West
Greenland lavas also exhibit (143)Nd/(144)Nd ratios similar to values recently
proposed for an early-formed (roughly 4.5 Gyr ago) terrestrial mantle reservoir. 
The combined helium-, lead- and Nd-isotopic compositions in Baffin Island and
West Greenland lavas therefore suggest that their source is the most ancient
accessible reservoir in the Earth's mantle, and it may be parental to all mantle 
reservoirs that give rise to modern volcanism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09287 
PMID: 20703304 


342. Nature. 2010 Aug 12;466(7308):849-52. doi: 10.1038/nature09314.

Precipitation-generated oscillations in open cellular cloud fields.

Feingold G(1), Koren I, Wang H, Xue H, Brewer WA.

Author information: 
(1)NOAA Earth System Research Laboratory (ESRL), Chemical Sciences Division,
Boulder, Colorado 80305, USA. graham.feingold@noaa.gov

Cloud fields adopt many different patterns that can have a profound effect on the
amount of sunlight reflected back to space, with important implications for the
Earth's climate. These cloud patterns can be observed in satellite images of the 
Earth and often exhibit distinct cell-like structures associated with organized
convection at scales of tens of kilometres. Recent evidence has shown that
atmospheric aerosol particles-through their influence on precipitation
formation-help to determine whether cloud fields take on closed (more reflective)
or open (less reflective) cellular patterns. The physical mechanisms controlling 
the formation and evolution of these cells, however, are still poorly understood,
limiting our ability to simulate realistically the effects of clouds on global
reflectance. Here we use satellite imagery and numerical models to show how
precipitating clouds produce an open cellular cloud pattern that oscillates
between different, weakly stable states. The oscillations are a result of
precipitation causing downward motion and outflow from clouds that were
previously positively buoyant. The evaporating precipitation drives air down to
the Earth's surface, where it diverges and collides with the outflows of
neighbouring precipitating cells. These colliding outflows form surface
convergence zones and new cloud formation. In turn, the newly formed clouds
produce precipitation and new colliding outflow patterns that are displaced from 
the previous ones. As successive cycles of this kind unfold, convergence zones
alternate with divergence zones and new cloud patterns emerge to replace old
ones. The result is an oscillating, self-organized system with a characteristic
cell size and precipitation frequency.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09314 
PMID: 20703303 


343. Nature. 2010 Aug 12;466(7308):845-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09279.

Nanoscale scanning probe ferromagnetic resonance imaging using localized modes.

Lee I(1), Obukhov Y, Xiang G, Hauser A, Yang F, Banerjee P, Pelekhov DV, Hammel
PC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio 43210, USA.

The discovery of new phenomena in layered and nanostructured magnetic devices is 
driving rapid growth in nanomagnetics research. Resulting applications such as
giant magnetoresistive field sensors and spin torque devices are fuelling
advances in information and communications technology, magnetoelectronic sensing 
and biomedicine. There is an urgent need for high-resolution magnetic-imaging
tools capable of characterizing these complex, often buried, nanoscale
structures. Conventional ferromagnetic resonance (FMR) provides quantitative
information about ferromagnetic materials and interacting multicomponent magnetic
structures with spectroscopic precision and can distinguish components of complex
bulk samples through their distinctive spectroscopic features. However, it lacks 
the sensitivity to probe nanoscale volumes and has no imaging capabilities. Here 
we demonstrate FMR imaging through spin-wave localization. Although the strong
interactions in a ferromagnet favour the excitation of extended collective modes,
we show that the intense, spatially confined magnetic field of the micromagnetic 
probe tip used in FMR force microscopy can be used to localize the FMR mode
immediately beneath the probe. We demonstrate FMR modes localized within volumes 
having 200 nm lateral dimensions, and improvements of the approach may allow
these dimensions to be decreased to tens of nanometres. Our study shows that this
approach is capable of providing the microscopic detail required for the
characterization of ferromagnets used in fields ranging from spintronics to
biomagnetism. This method is applicable to buried and surface magnets, and, being
a resonance technique, measures local internal fields and other magnetic
properties with spectroscopic precision.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09279 
PMID: 20703302 


344. Nature. 2010 Aug 12;466(7308):841-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09260.

Scale-free structural organization of oxygen interstitials in La(2)CuO(4+y).

Fratini M(1), Poccia N, Ricci A, Campi G, Burghammer M, Aeppli G, Bianconi A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Sapienza University of Rome, Piazzale Aldo Moro 2,
00185 Roma, Italy.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 12;466(7308):825-7.

It is well known that the microstructures of the transition-metal oxides,
including the high-transition-temperature (high-T(c)) copper oxide
superconductors, are complex. This is particularly so when there are oxygen
interstitials or vacancies, which influence the bulk properties. For example, the
oxygen interstitials in the spacer layers separating the superconducting CuO(2)
planes undergo ordering phenomena in Sr(2)O(1+y)CuO(2) (ref. 9),
YBa(2)Cu(3)O(6+y) (ref. 10) and La(2)CuO(4+y) (refs 11-15) that induce
enhancements in the transition temperatures with no changes in hole
concentrations. It is also known that complex systems often have a
scale-invariant structural organization, but hitherto none had been found in
high-T(c) materials. Here we report that the ordering of oxygen interstitials in 
the La(2)O(2+y) spacer layers of La(2)CuO(4+y) high-T(c) superconductors is
characterized by a fractal distribution up to a maximum limiting size of 400 mum.
Intriguingly, these fractal distributions of dopants seem to enhance
superconductivity at high temperature.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09260 
PMID: 20703301 


345. Nature. 2010 Aug 12;466(7308):835-40. doi: 10.1038/nature09267.

Mammalian microRNAs predominantly act to decrease target mRNA levels.

Guo H(1), Ingolia NT, Weissman JS, Bartel DP.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142,
USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2010 Oct;11(10):672.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous approximately 22-nucleotide RNAs that mediate
important gene-regulatory events by pairing to the mRNAs of protein-coding genes 
to direct their repression. Repression of these regulatory targets leads to
decreased translational efficiency and/or decreased mRNA levels, but the relative
contributions of these two outcomes have been largely unknown, particularly for
endogenous targets expressed at low-to-moderate levels. Here, we use ribosome
profiling to measure the overall effects on protein production and compare these 
to simultaneously measured effects on mRNA levels. For both ectopic and
endogenous miRNA regulatory interactions, lowered mRNA levels account for most
(>/=84%) of the decreased protein production. These results show that changes in 
mRNA levels closely reflect the impact of miRNAs on gene expression and indicate 
that destabilization of target mRNAs is the predominant reason for reduced
protein output.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09267 
PMCID: PMC2990499
PMID: 20703300  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Nature. 2010 Aug 12;466(7308):829-34. doi: 10.1038/nature09262.

Mesenchymal and haematopoietic stem cells form a unique bone marrow niche.

Méndez-Ferrer S(1), Michurina TV, Ferraro F, Mazloom AR, Macarthur BD, Lira SA,
Scadden DT, Ma'ayan A, Enikolopov GN, Frenette PS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York
10029, USA. simon.mendez-ferrer@cnic.es

The cellular constituents forming the haematopoietic stem cell (HSC) niche in the
bone marrow are unclear, with studies implicating osteoblasts, endothelial and
perivascular cells. Here we demonstrate that mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs),
identified using nestin expression, constitute an essential HSC niche component. 
Nestin(+) MSCs contain all the bone-marrow colony-forming-unit fibroblastic
activity and can be propagated as non-adherent 'mesenspheres' that can self-renew
and expand in serial transplantations. Nestin(+) MSCs are spatially associated
with HSCs and adrenergic nerve fibres, and highly express HSC maintenance genes. 
These genes, and others triggering osteoblastic differentiation, are selectively 
downregulated during enforced HSC mobilization or beta3 adrenoreceptor
activation. Whereas parathormone administration doubles the number of bone marrow
nestin(+) cells and favours their osteoblastic differentiation, in vivo nestin(+)
cell depletion rapidly reduces HSC content in the bone marrow. Purified HSCs home
near nestin(+) MSCs in the bone marrow of lethally irradiated mice, whereas in
vivo nestin(+) cell depletion significantly reduces bone marrow homing of
haematopoietic progenitors. These results uncover an unprecedented partnership
between two distinct somatic stem-cell types and are indicative of a unique niche
in the bone marrow made of heterotypic stem-cell pairs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09262 
PMCID: PMC3146551
PMID: 20703299  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Nature. 2010 Aug 12;466(7308):E3-4; discussion E4-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09217.

The prion protein as a receptor for amyloid-beta.

Kessels HW(1), Nguyen LN, Nabavi S, Malinow R.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Circuits and Behavior, 9500 Gilman Drive 0634, University of
California at San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.

Comment on
    Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1128-32.

Increased levels of brain amyloid-beta, a secreted peptide cleavage product of
amyloid precursor protein (APP), is believed to be critical in the aetiology of
Alzheimer's disease. Increased amyloid-beta can cause synaptic depression, reduce
the number of spine protrusions (that is, sites of synaptic contacts) and block
long-term synaptic potentiation (LTP), a form of synaptic plasticity; however,
the receptor through which amyloid-beta produces these synaptic perturbations has
remained elusive. Laurén et al. suggested that binding between oligomeric
amyloid-beta (a form of amyloid-beta thought to be most active) and the cellular 
prion protein (PrP(C)) is necessary for synaptic perturbations. Here we show that
PrP(C) is not required for amyloid-beta-induced synaptic depression, reduction in
spine density, or blockade of LTP; our results indicate that
amyloid-beta-mediated synaptic defects do not require PrP(c).

DOI: 10.1038/nature09217 
PMCID: PMC3057871
PMID: 20703260  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Nature. 2010 Aug 12;466(7308):869-73. doi: 10.1038/nature09208. Epub 2010 Jul 28.

Diverse somatic mutation patterns and pathway alterations in human cancers.

Kan Z(1), Jaiswal BS, Stinson J, Janakiraman V, Bhatt D, Stern HM, Yue P, Haverty
PM, Bourgon R, Zheng J, Moorhead M, Chaudhuri S, Tomsho LP, Peters BA, Pujara K, 
Cordes S, Davis DP, Carlton VE, Yuan W, Li L, Wang W, Eigenbrot C, Kaminker JS,
Eberhard DA, Waring P, Schuster SC, Modrusan Z, Zhang Z, Stokoe D, de Sauvage FJ,
Faham M, Seshagiri S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Genentech Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San
Francisco, California 94080, USA.

The systematic characterization of somatic mutations in cancer genomes is
essential for understanding the disease and for developing targeted therapeutics.
Here we report the identification of 2,576 somatic mutations across approximately
1,800 megabases of DNA representing 1,507 coding genes from 441 tumours
comprising breast, lung, ovarian and prostate cancer types and subtypes. We found
that mutation rates and the sets of mutated genes varied substantially across
tumour types and subtypes. Statistical analysis identified 77 significantly
mutated genes including protein kinases, G-protein-coupled receptors such as
GRM8, BAI3, AGTRL1 (also called APLNR) and LPHN3, and other druggable targets.
Integrated analysis of somatic mutations and copy number alterations identified
another 35 significantly altered genes including GNAS, indicating an expanded
role for galpha subunits in multiple cancer types. Furthermore, our experimental 
analyses demonstrate the functional roles of mutant GNAO1 (a Galpha subunit) and 
mutant MAP2K4 (a member of the JNK signalling pathway) in oncogenesis. Our study 
provides an overview of the mutational spectra across major human cancers and
identifies several potential therapeutic targets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09208 
PMID: 20668451  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Nature. 2010 Aug 12;466(7308):874-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09249. Epub 2010 Jul 25.

Wnt11 patterns a myocardial electrical gradient through regulation of the L-type 
Ca(2+) channel.

Panáková D(1), Werdich AA, Macrae CA.

Author information: 
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital/Harvard Medical School, Cardiovascular Division, 
75 Francis Street, Thorn 11, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Electrical gradients are critical for many biological processes, including the
normal function of excitable tissues, left-right patterning, organogenesis and
wound healing. The fundamental mechanisms that regulate the establishment and
maintenance of such electrical polarities are poorly understood. Here we identify
a gradient of electrical coupling across the developing ventricular myocardium
using high-speed optical mapping of transmembrane potentials and calcium
concentrations in the zebrafish heart. We excluded a role for differences in
cellular excitability, connexin localization, tissue geometry and mechanical
inputs, but in contrast we were able to demonstrate that non-canonical Wnt11
signals are required for the genesis of this myocardial electrical gradient.
Although the traditional planar cell polarity pathway is not involved, we
obtained evidence that Wnt11 acts to set up this gradient of electrical coupling 
through effects on transmembrane Ca(2+) conductance mediated by the L-type
calcium channel. These data reveal a previously unrecognized role for Wnt/Ca(2+) 
signalling in establishing an electrical gradient in the plane of the developing 
cardiac epithelium through modulation of ion-channel function. The regulation of 
cellular coupling through such mechanisms may be a general property of
non-canonical Wnt signals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09249 
PMCID: PMC2921013
PMID: 20657579  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Nature. 2010 Aug 12;466(7308):887-890. doi: 10.1038/nature09192.

Dynamics and mechanism of repair of ultraviolet-induced (6-4) photoproduct by
photolyase.

Li J(1), Liu Z, Tan C, Guo X, Wang L, Sancar A, Zhong D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Program of Biophysics, The Ohio State University,
Columbus, Ohio 43210, USA.

One of the detrimental effects of ultraviolet radiation on DNA is the formation
of the (6-4) photoproduct, 6-4PP, between two adjacent pyrimidine rings. This
lesion interferes with replication and transcription, and may result in mutation 
and cell death. In many organisms, a flavoenzyme called photolyase uses blue
light energy to repair the 6-4PP (ref. 3). The molecular mechanism of the repair 
reaction is poorly understood. Here, we use ultrafast spectroscopy to show that
the key step in the repair photocycle is acyclic proton transfer between the
enzyme and the substrate. By femtosecond synchronization of the enzymatic
dynamics with the repair function, we followed the function evolution and
observed direct electron transfer from the excited flavin cofactor to the 6-4PP
in 225 picoseconds, but surprisingly fast back electron transfer in 50
picoseconds without repair. We found that the catalytic proton transfer between a
histidine residue in the active site and the 6-4PP, induced by the initial
photoinduced electron transfer from the excited flavin cofactor to 6-4PP, occurs 
in 425 picoseconds and leads to 6-4PP repair in tens of nanoseconds. These key
dynamics define the repair photocycle and explain the underlying molecular
mechanism of the enzyme's modest efficiency.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09192 
PMCID: PMC3018752
PMID: 20657578  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Nature. 2010 Aug 12;466(7308):861-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09203. Epub 2010 Jul 14.

Social learning promotes institutions for governing the commons.

Sigmund K(1), De Silva H, Traulsen A, Hauert C.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Mathematics, University of Vienna, A-1090 Vienna, Austria.
karl.sigmund@univie.ac.at

Theoretical and empirical research highlights the role of punishment in promoting
collaborative efforts. However, both the emergence and the stability of costly
punishment are problematic issues. It is not clear how punishers can invade a
society of defectors by social learning or natural selection, or how second-order
free-riders (who contribute to the joint effort but not to the sanctions) can be 
prevented from drifting into a coercion-based regime and subverting cooperation. 
Here we compare the prevailing model of peer-punishment with pool-punishment,
which consists in committing resources, before the collaborative effort, to
prepare sanctions against free-riders. Pool-punishment facilitates the
sanctioning of second-order free-riders, because these are exposed even if
everyone contributes to the common good. In the absence of such second-order
punishment, peer-punishers do better than pool-punishers; but with second-order
punishment, the situation is reversed. Efficiency is traded for stability.
Neither other-regarding tendencies or preferences for reciprocity and equity, nor
group selection or prescriptions from higher authorities, are necessary for the
emergence and stability of rudimentary forms of sanctioning institutions
regulating common pool resources and enforcing collaborative efforts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09203 
PMID: 20631710  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Nature. 2010 Aug 12;466(7308):879-82. doi: 10.1038/nature09207. Epub 2010 Jul 14.

Microtubule nucleating gamma-TuSC assembles structures with 13-fold
microtubule-like symmetry.

Kollman JM(1), Polka JK, Zelter A, Davis TN, Agard DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
and Keck Advanced Microscopy Center, University of California, San Francisco, San
Francisco, California 94158, USA.

Microtubules are nucleated in vivo by gamma-tubulin complexes. The 300-kDa
gamma-tubulin small complex (gamma-TuSC), consisting of two molecules of
gamma-tubulin and one copy each of the accessory proteins Spc97 and Spc98, is the
conserved, essential core of the microtubule nucleating machinery. In metazoa
multiple gamma-TuSCs assemble with other proteins into gamma-tubulin ring
complexes (gamma-TuRCs). The structure of gamma-TuRC indicated that it functions 
as a microtubule template. Because each gamma-TuSC contains two molecules of
gamma-tubulin, it was assumed that the gamma-TuRC-specific proteins are required 
to organize gamma-TuSCs to match 13-fold microtubule symmetry. Here we show that 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae gamma-TuSC forms rings even in the absence of other
gamma-TuRC components. The yeast adaptor protein Spc110 stabilizes the rings into
extended filaments and is required for oligomer formation under physiological
buffer conditions. The 8-A cryo-electron microscopic reconstruction of the
filament reveals 13 gamma-tubulins per turn, matching microtubule symmetry, with 
plus ends exposed for interaction with microtubules, implying that one turn of
the filament constitutes a microtubule template. The domain structures of Spc97
and Spc98 suggest functions for conserved sequence motifs, with implications for 
the gamma-TuRC-specific proteins. The gamma-TuSC filaments nucleate microtubules 
at a low level, and the structure provides a strong hypothesis for how nucleation
is regulated, converting this less active form to a potent nucleator.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09207 
PMCID: PMC2921000
PMID: 20631709  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):774-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09301.

Branched tricarboxylic acid metabolism in Plasmodium falciparum.

Olszewski KL(1), Mather MW, Morrisey JM, Garcia BA, Vaidya AB, Rabinowitz JD,
Llinás M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative
Genomics, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):432.

Retraction in
    Olszewski KL, Mather MW, Morrisey JM, Garcia BA, Vaidya AB, Rabinowitz JD, Llinás
M. Nature. 2013 May 30;497(7451):652.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):702-3.

A central hub of carbon metabolism is the tricarboxylic acid cycle, which serves 
to connect the processes of glycolysis, gluconeogenesis, respiration, amino acid 
synthesis and other biosynthetic pathways. The protozoan intracellular malaria
parasites (Plasmodium spp.), however, have long been suspected of possessing a
significantly streamlined carbon metabolic network in which tricarboxylic acid
metabolism plays a minor role. Blood-stage Plasmodium parasites rely almost
entirely on glucose fermentation for energy and consume minimal amounts of
oxygen, yet the parasite genome encodes all of the enzymes necessary for a
complete tricarboxylic acid cycle. Here, by tracing (13)C-labelled compounds
using mass spectrometry we show that tricarboxylic acid metabolism in the human
malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum is largely disconnected from glycolysis
and is organized along a fundamentally different architecture from the canonical 
textbook pathway. We find that this pathway is not cyclic, but rather is a
branched structure in which the major carbon sources are the amino acids
glutamate and glutamine. As a consequence of this branched architecture, several 
reactions must run in the reverse of the standard direction, thereby generating
two-carbon units in the form of acetyl-coenzyme A. We further show that
glutamine-derived acetyl-coenzyme A is used for histone acetylation, whereas
glucose-derived acetyl-coenzyme A is used to acetylate amino sugars. Thus, the
parasite has evolved two independent production mechanisms for acetyl-coenzyme A 
with different biological functions. These results significantly clarify our
understanding of the Plasmodium metabolic network and highlight the ability of
altered variants of central carbon metabolism to arise in response to unique
environments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09301 
PMCID: PMC2917841
PMID: 20686576  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):769-73. doi: 10.1038/nature09209.

Epigenetic silencing of engineered L1 retrotransposition events in human
embryonic carcinoma cells.

Garcia-Perez JL(1), Morell M, Scheys JO, Kulpa DA, Morell S, Carter CC, Hammer
GD, Collins KL, O'Shea KS, Menendez P, Moran JV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Genetics, 1241 East Catherine Street, University of
Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-5618, USA.
josel.garcia.perez@juntadeandalucia.es

Long interspersed element-1 (LINE-1 or L1) retrotransposition continues to affect
human genome evolution. L1s can retrotranspose in the germline, during early
development and in select somatic cells; however, the host response to L1
retrotransposition remains largely unexplored. Here we show that reporter genes
introduced into the genome of various human embryonic carcinoma-derived cell
lines (ECs) by L1 retrotransposition are rapidly and efficiently silenced either 
during or immediately after their integration. Treating ECs with histone
deacetylase inhibitors rapidly reverses this silencing, and chromatin
immunoprecipitation experiments revealed that reactivation of the reporter gene
was correlated with changes in chromatin status at the L1 integration site. Under
our assay conditions, rapid silencing was also observed when reporter genes were 
delivered into ECs by mouse L1s and a zebrafish LINE-2 element, but not when
similar reporter genes were delivered into ECs by Moloney murine leukaemia virus 
or human immunodeficiency virus, suggesting that these integration events are
silenced by distinct mechanisms. Finally, we demonstrate that subjecting ECs to
culture conditions that promote differentiation attenuates the silencing of
reporter genes delivered by L1 retrotransposition, but that differentiation, in
itself, is not sufficient to reactivate previously silenced reporter genes. Thus,
our data indicate that ECs differ from many differentiated cells in their ability
to silence reporter genes delivered by L1 retrotransposition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09209 
PMCID: PMC3034402
PMID: 20686575  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):756-60. doi: 10.1038/nature09304.

Predicting protein structures with a multiplayer online game.

Cooper S(1), Khatib F, Treuille A, Barbero J, Lee J, Beenen M, Leaver-Fay A,
Baker D, Popović Z, Players F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Washington, Box 
352350, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.

People exert large amounts of problem-solving effort playing computer games.
Simple image- and text-recognition tasks have been successfully 'crowd-sourced'
through games, but it is not clear if more complex scientific problems can be
solved with human-directed computing. Protein structure prediction is one such
problem: locating the biologically relevant native conformation of a protein is a
formidable computational challenge given the very large size of the search space.
Here we describe Foldit, a multiplayer online game that engages non-scientists in
solving hard prediction problems. Foldit players interact with protein structures
using direct manipulation tools and user-friendly versions of algorithms from the
Rosetta structure prediction methodology, while they compete and collaborate to
optimize the computed energy. We show that top-ranked Foldit players excel at
solving challenging structure refinement problems in which substantial backbone
rearrangements are necessary to achieve the burial of hydrophobic residues.
Players working collaboratively develop a rich assortment of new strategies and
algorithms; unlike computational approaches, they explore not only the
conformational space but also the space of possible search strategies. The
integration of human visual problem-solving and strategy development capabilities
with traditional computational algorithms through interactive multiplayer games
is a powerful new approach to solving computationally-limited scientific
problems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09304 
PMCID: PMC2956414
PMID: 20686574  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):748-51. doi: 10.1038/nature09061.

The evolution of mammal-like crocodyliforms in the Cretaceous Period of Gondwana.

O'Connor PM(1), Sertich JJ, Stevens NJ, Roberts EM, Gottfried MD, Hieronymus TL, 
Jinnah ZA, Ridgely R, Ngasala SE, Temba J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Ohio University College of Osteopathic
Medicine, 228 Irvine Hall, Athens, Ohio 45701, USA. oconnorp@ohio.edu

Fossil crocodyliforms discovered in recent years have revealed a level of
morphological and ecological diversity not exhibited by extant members of the
group. This diversity is particularly notable among taxa of the Cretaceous Period
(144-65 million years ago) recovered from former Gondwanan landmasses. Here we
report the discovery of a new species of Cretaceous notosuchian crocodyliform
from the Rukwa Rift Basin of southwestern Tanzania. This small-bodied form
deviates significantly from more typical crocodyliform craniodental morphologies,
having a short, broad skull, robust lower jaw, and a dentition with relatively
few teeth that nonetheless show marked heterodonty. The presence of
morphologically complex, complementary upper and lower molariform teeth suggests 
a degree of crown-crown contact during jaw adduction that is unmatched among
known crocodyliforms, paralleling the level of occlusal complexity seen in
mammals and their extinct relatives. The presence of another small-bodied
mammal-like crocodyliform in the Cretaceous of Gondwana indicates that
notosuchians probably filled niches and inhabited ecomorphospace that were
otherwise occupied by mammals on northern continents.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09061 
PMID: 20686573  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):744-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09257.

Melting-induced stratification above the Earth's inner core due to convective
translation.

Alboussière T(1), Deguen R, Melzani M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Géophysique Interne et Tectonophysique, CNRS, Observatoire de
Grenoble, Université Joseph Fourier, Maison des Géosciences, BP 53, 38041
Grenoble Cedex 9, France. thierry.alboussiere@ens-lyon.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):697-8.

In addition to its global North-South anisotropy, there are two other enigmatic
seismological observations related to the Earth's inner core: asymmetry between
its eastern and western hemispheres and the presence of a layer of reduced
seismic velocity at the base of the outer core. This 250-km-thick layer has been 
interpreted as a stably stratified region of reduced composition in light
elements. Here we show that this layer can be generated by simultaneous
crystallization and melting at the surface of the inner core, and that a
translational mode of thermal convection in the inner core can produce enough
melting and crystallization on each hemisphere respectively for the dense layer
to develop. The dynamical model we propose introduces a clear asymmetry between a
melting and a crystallizing hemisphere which forms a basis for also explaining
the East-West asymmetry. The present translation rate is found to be typically
100 million years for the inner core to be entirely renewed, which is one to two 
orders of magnitude faster than the growth rate of the inner core's radius. The
resulting strong asymmetry of buoyancy flux caused by light elements is
anticipated to have an impact on the dynamics of the outer core and on the
geodynamo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09257 
PMID: 20686572 


358. Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):739-43. doi: 10.1038/nature09212.

Real-time observation of valence electron motion.

Goulielmakis E(1), Loh ZH, Wirth A, Santra R, Rohringer N, Yakovlev VS,
Zherebtsov S, Pfeifer T, Azzeer AM, Kling MF, Leone SR, Krausz F.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Quantenoptik, Hans-Kopfermann-Strasse 1, D-85748
Garching, Germany. elgo@mpq.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):700-2.

The superposition of quantum states drives motion on the atomic and subatomic
scales, with the energy spacing of the states dictating the speed of the motion. 
In the case of electrons residing in the outer (valence) shells of atoms and
molecules which are separated by electronvolt energies, this means that valence
electron motion occurs on a subfemtosecond to few-femtosecond timescale (1 fs =
10(-15) s). In the absence of complete measurements, the motion can be
characterized in terms of a complex quantity, the density matrix. Here we report 
an attosecond pump-probe measurement of the density matrix of valence electrons
in atomic krypton ions. We generate the ions with a controlled few-cycle laser
field and then probe them through the spectrally resolved absorption of an
attosecond extreme-ultraviolet pulse, which allows us to observe in real time the
subfemtosecond motion of valence electrons over a multifemtosecond time span. We 
are able to completely characterize the quantum mechanical electron motion and
determine its degree of coherence in the specimen of the ensemble. Although the
present study uses a simple, prototypical open system, attosecond transient
absorption spectroscopy should be applicable to molecules and solid-state
materials to reveal the elementary electron motions that control physical,
chemical and biological properties and processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09212 
PMID: 20686571 


359. Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):735-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09278.

Loss-free and active optical negative-index metamaterials.

Xiao S(1), Drachev VP, Kildishev AV, Ni X, Chettiar UK, Yuan HK, Shalaev VM.

Author information: 
(1)Birck Nanotechnology Center and School of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana 47907, USA.

The recently emerged fields of metamaterials and transformation optics promise a 
family of exciting applications such as invisibility, optical imaging with deeply
subwavelength resolution and nanophotonics with the potential for much faster
information processing. The possibility of creating optical negative-index
metamaterials (NIMs) using nanostructured metal-dielectric composites has
triggered intense basic and applied research over the past several years.
However, the performance of all NIM applications is significantly limited by the 
inherent and strong energy dissipation in metals, especially in the near-infrared
and visible wavelength ranges. Generally the losses are orders of magnitude too
large for the proposed applications, and the reduction of losses with optimized
designs seems to be out of reach. One way of addressing this issue is to
incorporate gain media into NIM designs. However, whether NIMs with low loss can 
be achieved has been the subject of theoretical debate. Here we experimentally
demonstrate that the incorporation of gain material in the high-local-field areas
of a metamaterial makes it possible to fabricate an extremely low-loss and active
optical NIM. The original loss-limited negative refractive index and the figure
of merit (FOM) of the device have been drastically improved with loss
compensation in the visible wavelength range between 722 and 738 nm. In this
range, the NIM becomes active such that the sum of the light intensities in
transmission and reflection exceeds the intensity of the incident beam. At a
wavelength of 737 nm, the negative refractive index improves from -0.66 to -1.017
and the FOM increases from 1 to 26. At 738 nm, the FOM is expected to become
macroscopically large, of the order of 10(6). This study demonstrates the
possibility of fabricating an optical negative-index metamaterial that is not
limited by the inherent loss in its metal constituent.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09278 
PMID: 20686570 


360. Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):730-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09256.

Quantum entanglement between an optical photon and a solid-state spin qubit.

Togan E(1), Chu Y, Trifonov AS, Jiang L, Maze J, Childress L, Dutt MV, Sørensen
AS, Hemmer PR, Zibrov AS, Lukin MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138,
USA.

Quantum entanglement is among the most fascinating aspects of quantum theory.
Entangled optical photons are now widely used for fundamental tests of quantum
mechanics and applications such as quantum cryptography. Several recent
experiments demonstrated entanglement of optical photons with trapped ions, atoms
and atomic ensembles, which are then used to connect remote long-term memory
nodes in distributed quantum networks. Here we realize quantum entanglement
between the polarization of a single optical photon and a solid-state qubit
associated with the single electronic spin of a nitrogen vacancy centre in
diamond. Our experimental entanglement verification uses the quantum eraser
technique, and demonstrates that a high degree of control over interactions
between a solid-state qubit and the quantum light field can be achieved. The
reported entanglement source can be used in studies of fundamental quantum
phenomena and provides a key building block for the solid-state realization of
quantum optical networks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09256 
PMID: 20686569 


361. Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):727-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09311.

A ground-layer adaptive optics system with multiple laser guide stars.

Hart M(1), Milton NM, Baranec C, Powell K, Stalcup T, McCarthy D, Kulesa C,
Bendek E.

Author information: 
(1)Steward Observatory, The University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721, USA.
mhart@as.arizona.edu

To determine the influence of the environment on star formation, we need to study
the process in the extreme conditions of massive young star clusters (
approximately 10(4) solar masses) near the centre of our own Galaxy. Observations
must be carried out in the near infrared because of very high extinction in
visible light within the Galactic plane. We need high resolution to identify
cluster members from their peculiar motions, and because most such clusters span 
more than 1', efficient observation demands a wide field of view. There is at
present no space-based facility that meets all these criteria. Ground-based
telescopes can in principle make such observations when fitted with ground-layer 
adaptive optics (GLAO), which removes the optical aberration caused by
atmospheric turbulence up to an altitude of approximately 500 m (refs 7-10). A
GLAO system that uses multiple laser guide stars has been developed at the 6.5-m 
MMT telescope, in Arizona. In previous tests, the system improved the resolution 
of the telescope by 30-50%, limited by wavefront error in the optics, but that
was insufficient to allow rapid determination of cluster membership. Here we
report observations of the core of the globular cluster M3 made after
commissioning a sensor to monitor and remove slowly varying aberration in the
optics. In natural seeing of 0.7'', the point spread function at 2.2-mum
wavelength was sharpened uniformly to 0.3'' over a field of at least 2'. The
wide-field resolution was enhanced by a factor of two to three over previous
work, with better uniformity, and extends to a wavelength of 1.2 mum. Entire
stellar clusters may be examined in a single pointing, and cluster membership can
be determined from two such observations separated by just one year.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09311 
PMID: 20686568 


362. Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):720-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09201.

The Amphimedon queenslandica genome and the evolution of animal complexity.

Srivastava M(1), Simakov O, Chapman J, Fahey B, Gauthier ME, Mitros T, Richards
GS, Conaco C, Dacre M, Hellsten U, Larroux C, Putnam NH, Stanke M, Adamska M,
Darling A, Degnan SM, Oakley TH, Plachetzki DC, Zhai Y, Adamski M, Calcino A,
Cummins SF, Goodstein DM, Harris C, Jackson DJ, Leys SP, Shu S, Woodcroft BJ,
Vervoort M, Kosik KS, Manning G, Degnan BM, Rokhsar DS.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Integrative Genomics and Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, 
University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA. mansi@wi.mit.edu

Sponges are an ancient group of animals that diverged from other metazoans over
600 million years ago. Here we present the draft genome sequence of Amphimedon
queenslandica, a demosponge from the Great Barrier Reef, and show that it is
remarkably similar to other animal genomes in content, structure and
organization. Comparative analysis enabled by the sequencing of the sponge genome
reveals genomic events linked to the origin and early evolution of animals,
including the appearance, expansion and diversification of pan-metazoan
transcription factor, signalling pathway and structural genes. This diverse
'toolkit' of genes correlates with critical aspects of all metazoan body plans,
and comprises cell cycle control and growth, development, somatic- and germ-cell 
specification, cell adhesion, innate immunity and allorecognition. Notably, many 
of the genes associated with the emergence of animals are also implicated in
cancer, which arises from defects in basic processes associated with metazoan
multicellularity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09201 
PMCID: PMC3130542
PMID: 20686567  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):714-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09266.

From noncoding variant to phenotype via SORT1 at the 1p13 cholesterol locus.

Musunuru K(1), Strong A, Frank-Kamenetsky M, Lee NE, Ahfeldt T, Sachs KV, Li X,
Li H, Kuperwasser N, Ruda VM, Pirruccello JP, Muchmore B, Prokunina-Olsson L,
Hall JL, Schadt EE, Morales CR, Lund-Katz S, Phillips MC, Wong J, Cantley W,
Racie T, Ejebe KG, Orho-Melander M, Melander O, Koteliansky V, Fitzgerald K,
Krauss RM, Cowan CA, Kathiresan S, Rader DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Center and Center for Human Genetic Research,
Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 
02114, USA.

Comment in
    Circ Cardiovasc Genet. 2011 Aug 1;4(4):465-6.
    Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):703-4.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2010 Nov;6(11):598.
    Curr Atheroscler Rep. 2011 Jun;13(3):190-2.

Recent genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have identified a locus on
chromosome 1p13 strongly associated with both plasma low-density lipoprotein
cholesterol (LDL-C) and myocardial infarction (MI) in humans. Here we show
through a series of studies in human cohorts and human-derived hepatocytes that a
common noncoding polymorphism at the 1p13 locus, rs12740374, creates a C/EBP
(CCAAT/enhancer binding protein) transcription factor binding site and alters the
hepatic expression of the SORT1 gene. With small interfering RNA (siRNA)
knockdown and viral overexpression in mouse liver, we demonstrate that Sort1
alters plasma LDL-C and very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) particle levels by
modulating hepatic VLDL secretion. Thus, we provide functional evidence for a
novel regulatory pathway for lipoprotein metabolism and suggest that modulation
of this pathway may alter risk for MI in humans. We also demonstrate that common 
noncoding DNA variants identified by GWASs can directly contribute to clinical
phenotypes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09266 
PMCID: PMC3062476
PMID: 20686566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):707-13. doi: 10.1038/nature09270.

Biological, clinical and population relevance of 95 loci for blood lipids.

Teslovich TM(1), Musunuru K, Smith AV, Edmondson AC, Stylianou IM, Koseki M,
Pirruccello JP, Ripatti S, Chasman DI, Willer CJ, Johansen CT, Fouchier SW,
Isaacs A, Peloso GM, Barbalic M, Ricketts SL, Bis JC, Aulchenko YS, Thorleifsson 
G, Feitosa MF, Chambers J, Orho-Melander M, Melander O, Johnson T, Li X, Guo X,
Li M, Shin Cho Y, Jin Go M, Jin Kim Y, Lee JY, Park T, Kim K, Sim X, Twee-Hee Ong
R, Croteau-Chonka DC, Lange LA, Smith JD, Song K, Hua Zhao J, Yuan X, Luan J,
Lamina C, Ziegler A, Zhang W, Zee RY, Wright AF, Witteman JC, Wilson JF,
Willemsen G, Wichmann HE, Whitfield JB, Waterworth DM, Wareham NJ, Waeber G,
Vollenweider P, Voight BF, Vitart V, Uitterlinden AG, Uda M, Tuomilehto J,
Thompson JR, Tanaka T, Surakka I, Stringham HM, Spector TD, Soranzo N, Smit JH,
Sinisalo J, Silander K, Sijbrands EJ, Scuteri A, Scott J, Schlessinger D, Sanna
S, Salomaa V, Saharinen J, Sabatti C, Ruokonen A, Rudan I, Rose LM, Roberts R,
Rieder M, Psaty BM, Pramstaller PP, Pichler I, Perola M, Penninx BW, Pedersen NL,
Pattaro C, Parker AN, Pare G, Oostra BA, O'Donnell CJ, Nieminen MS, Nickerson DA,
Montgomery GW, Meitinger T, McPherson R, McCarthy MI, McArdle W, Masson D, Martin
NG, Marroni F, Mangino M, Magnusson PK, Lucas G, Luben R, Loos RJ, Lokki ML,
Lettre G, Langenberg C, Launer LJ, Lakatta EG, Laaksonen R, Kyvik KO, Kronenberg 
F, König IR, Khaw KT, Kaprio J, Kaplan LM, Johansson A, Jarvelin MR, Janssens AC,
Ingelsson E, Igl W, Kees Hovingh G, Hottenga JJ, Hofman A, Hicks AA, Hengstenberg
C, Heid IM, Hayward C, Havulinna AS, Hastie ND, Harris TB, Haritunians T, Hall
AS, Gyllensten U, Guiducci C, Groop LC, Gonzalez E, Gieger C, Freimer NB,
Ferrucci L, Erdmann J, Elliott P, Ejebe KG, Döring A, Dominiczak AF, Demissie S, 
Deloukas P, de Geus EJ, de Faire U, Crawford G, Collins FS, Chen YD, Caulfield
MJ, Campbell H, Burtt NP, Bonnycastle LL, Boomsma DI, Boekholdt SM, Bergman RN,
Barroso I, Bandinelli S, Ballantyne CM, Assimes TL, Quertermous T, Altshuler D,
Seielstad M, Wong TY, Tai ES, Feranil AB, Kuzawa CW, Adair LS, Taylor HA Jr,
Borecki IB, Gabriel SB, Wilson JG, Holm H, Thorsteinsdottir U, Gudnason V, Krauss
RM, Mohlke KL, Ordovas JM, Munroe PB, Kooner JS, Tall AR, Hegele RA, Kastelein
JJ, Schadt EE, Rotter JI, Boerwinkle E, Strachan DP, Mooser V, Stefansson K,
Reilly MP, Samani NJ, Schunkert H, Cupples LA, Sandhu MS, Ridker PM, Rader DJ,
van Duijn CM, Peltonen L, Abecasis GR, Boehnke M, Kathiresan S.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Statistical Genetics, Department of Biostatistics, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):703-4.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2010 Nov;6(11):598.

Plasma concentrations of total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, 
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides are among the most
important risk factors for coronary artery disease (CAD) and are targets for
therapeutic intervention. We screened the genome for common variants associated
with plasma lipids in >100,000 individuals of European ancestry. Here we report
95 significantly associated loci (P < 5 x 10(-8)), with 59 showing genome-wide
significant association with lipid traits for the first time. The newly reported 
associations include single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) near known lipid
regulators (for example, CYP7A1, NPC1L1 and SCARB1) as well as in scores of loci 
not previously implicated in lipoprotein metabolism. The 95 loci contribute not
only to normal variation in lipid traits but also to extreme lipid phenotypes and
have an impact on lipid traits in three non-European populations (East Asians,
South Asians and African Americans). Our results identify several novel loci
associated with plasma lipids that are also associated with CAD. Finally, we
validated three of the novel genes-GALNT2, PPP1R3B and TTC39B-with experiments in
mouse models. Taken together, our findings provide the foundation to develop a
broader biological understanding of lipoprotein metabolism and to identify new
therapeutic opportunities for the prevention of CAD.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09270 
PMCID: PMC3039276
PMID: 20686565  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):765-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09171. Epub 2010 Jul 18.

Regulation of myeloid leukaemia by the cell-fate determinant Musashi.

Ito T(1), Kwon HY, Zimdahl B, Congdon KL, Blum J, Lento WE, Zhao C, Lagoo A,
Gerrard G, Foroni L, Goldman J, Goh H, Kim SH, Kim DW, Chuah C, Oehler VG, Radich
JP, Jordan CT, Reya T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Cancer Biology, Duke University Medical Center,
Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2010 Sep;10(9):602.

Chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML) can progress from a slow growing chronic
phase to an aggressive blast crisis phase, but the molecular basis of this
transition remains poorly understood. Here we have used mouse models of CML to
show that disease progression is regulated by the Musashi-Numb signalling axis.
Specifically, we find that the chronic phase is marked by high levels of Numb
expression whereas the blast crisis phase has low levels of Numb expression, and 
that ectopic expression of Numb promotes differentiation and impairs
advanced-phase disease in vivo. As a possible explanation for the decreased
levels of Numb in the blast crisis phase, we show that NUP98-HOXA9, an oncogene
associated with blast crisis CML, can trigger expression of the RNA-binding
protein Musashi2 (Msi2), which in turn represses Numb. Notably, loss of Msi2
restores Numb expression and significantly impairs the development and
propagation of blast crisis CML in vitro and in vivo. Finally we show that Msi2
expression is not only highly upregulated during human CML progression but is
also an early indicator of poorer prognosis. These data show that the
Musashi-Numb pathway can control the differentiation of CML cells, and raise the 
possibility that targeting this pathway may provide a new strategy for the
therapy of aggressive leukaemias.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09171 
PMCID: PMC2918284
PMID: 20639863  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):779-82. doi: 10.1038/nature09265. Epub 2010 Jul 18.

Microbial metalloproteomes are largely uncharacterized.

Cvetkovic A(1), Menon AL, Thorgersen MP, Scott JW, Poole FL 2nd, Jenney FE Jr,
Lancaster WA, Praissman JL, Shanmukh S, Vaccaro BJ, Trauger SA, Kalisiak E, Apon 
JV, Siuzdak G, Yannone SM, Tainer JA, Adams MW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Georgia,
Athens, Georgia 30602, USA.

Metal ion cofactors afford proteins virtually unlimited catalytic potential,
enable electron transfer reactions and have a great impact on protein stability. 
Consequently, metalloproteins have key roles in most biological processes,
including respiration (iron and copper), photosynthesis (manganese) and drug
metabolism (iron). Yet, predicting from genome sequence the numbers and types of 
metal an organism assimilates from its environment or uses in its metalloproteome
is currently impossible because metal coordination sites are diverse and poorly
recognized. We present here a robust, metal-based approach to determine all
metals an organism assimilates and identify its metalloproteins on a genome-wide 
scale. This shifts the focus from classical protein-based purification to
metal-based identification and purification by liquid chromatography,
high-throughput tandem mass spectrometry (HT-MS/MS) and inductively coupled
plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) to characterize cytoplasmic metalloproteins
from an exemplary microorganism (Pyrococcus furiosus). Of 343 metal peaks in
chromatography fractions, 158 did not match any predicted metalloprotein.
Unassigned peaks included metals known to be used (cobalt, iron, nickel, tungsten
and zinc; 83 peaks) plus metals the organism was not thought to assimilate (lead,
manganese, molybdenum, uranium and vanadium; 75 peaks). Purification of eight of 
158 unexpected metal peaks yielded four novel nickel- and molybdenum-containing
proteins, whereas four purified proteins contained sub-stoichiometric amounts of 
misincorporated lead and uranium. Analyses of two additional microorganisms
(Escherichia coli and Sulfolobus solfataricus) revealed species-specific
assimilation of yet more unexpected metals. Metalloproteomes are therefore much
more extensive and diverse than previously recognized, and promise to provide key
insights for cell biology, microbial growth and toxicity mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09265 
PMID: 20639861  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):752-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09273.

Negative plant-soil feedback predicts tree-species relative abundance in a
tropical forest.

Mangan SA(1), Schnitzer SA, Herre EA, Mack KM, Valencia MC, Sanchez EI, Bever JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee,
Wisconsin 53201, USA. smangan37@gmail.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):698-9.

The accumulation of species-specific enemies around adults is hypothesized to
maintain plant diversity by limiting the recruitment of conspecific seedlings
relative to heterospecific seedlings. Although previous studies in forested
ecosystems have documented patterns consistent with the process of negative
feedback, these studies are unable to address which classes of enemies (for
example, pathogens, invertebrates, mammals) exhibit species-specific effects
strong enough to generate negative feedback, and whether negative feedback at the
level of the individual tree is sufficient to influence community-wide forest
composition. Here we use fully reciprocal shade-house and field experiments to
test whether the performance of conspecific tree seedlings (relative to
heterospecific seedlings) is reduced when grown in the presence of enemies
associated with adult trees. Both experiments provide strong evidence for
negative plant-soil feedback mediated by soil biota. In contrast, above-ground
enemies (mammals, foliar herbivores and foliar pathogens) contributed little to
negative feedback observed in the field. In both experiments, we found that tree 
species that showed stronger negative feedback were less common as adults in the 
forest community, indicating that susceptibility to soil biota may determine
species relative abundance in these tropical forests. Finally, our simulation
models confirm that the strength of local negative feedback that we measured is
sufficient to produce the observed community-wide patterns in tree-species
relative abundance. Our findings indicate that plant-soil feedback is an
important mechanism that can maintain species diversity and explain patterns of
tree-species relative abundance in tropical forests.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09273 
PMID: 20581819  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Nature. 2010 Aug 5;466(7307):761-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09182. Epub 2010 Jun 20.

Link communities reveal multiscale complexity in networks.

Ahn YY(1), Bagrow JP, Lehmann S.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Complex Network Research, Department of Physics, Northeastern
University, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Networks have become a key approach to understanding systems of interacting
objects, unifying the study of diverse phenomena including biological organisms
and human society. One crucial step when studying the structure and dynamics of
networks is to identify communities: groups of related nodes that correspond to
functional subunits such as protein complexes or social spheres. Communities in
networks often overlap such that nodes simultaneously belong to several groups.
Meanwhile, many networks are known to possess hierarchical organization, where
communities are recursively grouped into a hierarchical structure. However, the
fact that many real networks have communities with pervasive overlap, where each 
and every node belongs to more than one group, has the consequence that a global 
hierarchy of nodes cannot capture the relationships between overlapping groups.
Here we reinvent communities as groups of links rather than nodes and show that
this unorthodox approach successfully reconciles the antagonistic organizing
principles of overlapping communities and hierarchy. In contrast to the existing 
literature, which has entirely focused on grouping nodes, link communities
naturally incorporate overlap while revealing hierarchical organization. We find 
relevant link communities in many networks, including major biological networks
such as protein-protein interaction and metabolic networks, and show that a large
social network contains hierarchically organized community structures spanning
inner-city to regional scales while maintaining pervasive overlap. Our results
imply that link communities are fundamental building blocks that reveal overlap
and hierarchical organization in networks to be two aspects of the same
phenomenon.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09182 
PMID: 20562860  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):656-7.

Enlisting investigators.

Hand E.

Few scientists realize that the enormous budget of the US Department of Defense
includes sizeable funds for basic research. Eric Hand provides a guide for the
uninitiated.


PMID: 20687244  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):642-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09190.

New class of gene-termini-associated human RNAs suggests a novel RNA copying
mechanism.

Kapranov P(1), Ozsolak F, Kim SW, Foissac S, Lipson D, Hart C, Roels S, Borel C, 
Antonarakis SE, Monaghan AP, John B, Milos PM.

Author information: 
(1)Helicos BioSciences Corporation, 1 Kendall Sq. Ste B7301 Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139-1671, USA. philippk08@gmail.com

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2010 Sep;11(9):594.

Small (<200 nucleotide) RNA (sRNA) profiling of human cells using various
technologies demonstrates unexpected complexity of sRNAs with hundreds of
thousands of sRNA species present. Genetic and in vitro studies show that these
RNAs are not merely degradation products of longer transcripts but could indeed
have a function. Furthermore, profiling of RNAs, including the sRNAs, can reveal 
not only novel transcripts, but also make clear predictions about the existence
and properties of novel biochemical pathways operating in a cell. For example,
sRNA profiling in human cells indicated the existence of an unknown capping
mechanism operating on cleaved RNA, a biochemical component of which was later
identified. Here we show that human cells contain a novel type of sRNA that has
non-genomically encoded 5' poly(U) tails. The presence of these RNAs at the
termini of genes, specifically at the very 3' ends of known mRNAs, strongly
argues for the presence of a yet uncharacterized endogenous biochemical pathway
in cells that can copy RNA. We show that this pathway can operate on multiple
genes, with specific enrichment towards transcript-encoding components of the
translational machinery. Finally, we show that genes are also flanked by sense,
3' polyadenylated sRNAs that are likely to be capped.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09190 
PMCID: PMC3058539
PMID: 20671709  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):637-41. doi: 10.1038/nature09191.

Pathogenic LRRK2 negatively regulates microRNA-mediated translational repression.

Gehrke S(1), Imai Y, Sokol N, Lu B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
California 94305, USA. sgehrke@stanford.edu

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2010 Sep;11(9):609.

Gain-of-function mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) cause familial
as well as sporadic Parkinson's disease characterized by age-dependent
degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. The molecular mechanism of LRRK2 action is 
not known. Here we show that LRRK2 interacts with the microRNA (miRNA) pathway to
regulate protein synthesis. Drosophila e2f1 and dp messenger RNAs are
translationally repressed by let-7 and miR-184*, respectively. Pathogenic LRRK2
antagonizes these miRNAs, leading to the overproduction of E2F1/DP, previously
implicated in cell cycle and survival control and shown here to be critical for
LRRK2 pathogenesis. Genetic deletion of let-7, antagomir-mediated blockage of
let-7 and miR-184* action, transgenic expression of dp target protector, or
replacement of endogenous dp with a dp transgene non-responsive to let-7 each had
toxic effects similar to those of pathogenic LRRK2. Conversely, increasing the
level of let-7 or miR-184* attenuated pathogenic LRRK2 effects. LRRK2 associated 
with Drosophila Argonaute-1 (dAgo1) or human Argonaute-2 (hAgo2) of the
RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC). In aged fly brain, dAgo1 protein level was 
negatively regulated by LRRK2. Further, pathogenic LRRK2 promoted the association
of phospho-4E-BP1 with hAgo2. Our results implicate deregulated synthesis of
E2F1/DP caused by the miRNA pathway impairment as a key event in LRRK2
pathogenesis and suggest novel miRNA-based therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09191 
PMCID: PMC3049892
PMID: 20671708  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):608-11. doi: 10.1038/nature09258.

Triggering of New Madrid seismicity by late-Pleistocene erosion.

Calais E(1), Freed AM, Van Arsdale R, Stein S.

Author information: 
(1)Purdue University, Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, West
Lafayette, Indiana 47907, USA. ecalais@purdue.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):568-9.

The spatiotemporal behaviour of earthquakes within continental plate interiors is
different from that at plate boundaries. At plate margins, tectonic motions
quickly reload earthquake ruptures, making the location of recent earthquakes and
the average time between them consistent with the faults' geological,
palaeoseismic and seismic histories. In contrast, what determines the activation 
of a particular mid-continental fault and controls the duration of its seismic
activity remains poorly understood. Here we argue that the concentration of
magnitude-7 or larger earthquakes in the New Madrid seismic zone of the central
United States since the end of the last ice age results from the recent,
climate-controlled, erosional history of the northern Mississippi embayment. We
show that the upward flexure of the lithosphere caused by unloading from river
incision between 16,000 and 10,000 years ago caused a reduction of normal
stresses in the upper crust sufficient to unclamp pre-existing faults close to
failure equilibrium. Models indicate that fault segments that have already
ruptured are unlikely to fail again soon, but stress changes from sediment
unloading and previous earthquakes may eventually be sufficient to bring to
failure other nearby segments that have not yet ruptured.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09258 
PMID: 20671707 


373. Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):604-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09185.

Following a chemical reaction using high-harmonic interferometry.

Wörner HJ(1), Bertrand JB, Kartashov DV, Corkum PB, Villeneuve DM.

Author information: 
(1)Joint Laboratory for Attosecond Science, National Research Council of Canada
and University of Ottawa, 100 Sussex Drive, Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0R6, Canada.

The study of chemical reactions on the molecular (femtosecond) timescale
typically uses pump laser pulses to excite molecules and subsequent probe pulses 
to interrogate them. The ultrashort pump pulse can excite only a small fraction
of molecules, and the probe wavelength must be carefully chosen to discriminate
between excited and unexcited molecules. The past decade has seen the emergence
of new methods that are also aimed at imaging chemical reactions as they occur,
based on X-ray diffraction, electron diffraction or laser-induced
recollision--with spectral selection not available for any of these new methods. 
Here we show that in the case of high-harmonic spectroscopy based on recollision,
this apparent limitation becomes a major advantage owing to the coherent nature
of the attosecond high-harmonic pulse generation. The coherence allows the
unexcited molecules to act as local oscillators against which the dynamics are
observed, so a transient grating technique can be used to reconstruct the
amplitude and phase of emission from the excited molecules. We then extract
structural information from the amplitude, which encodes the internuclear
separation, by quantum interference at short times and by scattering of the
recollision electron at longer times. The phase records the attosecond dynamics
of the electrons, giving access to the evolving ionization potentials and the
electronic structure of the transient molecule. In our experiment, we are able to
document a temporal shift of the high-harmonic field of less than an attosecond
(1 as = 10(-18) s) between the stretched and compressed geometry of weakly
vibrationally excited Br(2) in the electronic ground state. The ability to probe 
structural and electronic features, combined with high time resolution, make
high-harmonic spectroscopy ideally suited to measuring coupled electronic and
nuclear dynamics occurring in photochemical reactions and to characterizing the
electronic structure of transition states.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09185 
PMID: 20671706 


374. Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):601-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09175.

Direct generation of photon triplets using cascaded photon-pair sources.

Hübel H(1), Hamel DR, Fedrizzi A, Ramelow S, Resch KJ, Jennewein T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Quantum Computing and Department of Physics & Astronomy,
University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario N2L 3G1, Canada. hhuebel@iqc.ca

Non-classical states of light, such as entangled photon pairs and number states, 
are essential for fundamental tests of quantum mechanics and optical quantum
technologies. The most widespread technique for creating these quantum resources 
is spontaneous parametric down-conversion of laser light into photon pairs.
Conservation of energy and momentum in this process, known as phase-matching,
gives rise to strong correlations that are used to produce two-photon
entanglement in various degrees of freedom. It has been a longstanding goal in
quantum optics to realize a source that can produce analogous correlations in
photon triplets, but of the many approaches considered, none has been technically
feasible. Here we report the observation of photon triplets generated by cascaded
down-conversion. Each triplet originates from a single pump photon, and therefore
quantum correlations will extend over all three photons in a way not achievable
with independently created photon pairs. Our photon-triplet source will allow
experimental interrogation of novel quantum correlations, the generation of
tripartite entanglement without post-selection and the generation of heralded
entangled photon pairs suitable for linear optical quantum computing. Two of the 
triplet photons have a wavelength matched for optimal transmission in optical
fibres, suitable for three-party quantum communication. Furthermore, our results 
open interesting regimes of non-linear optics, as we observe spontaneous
down-conversion pumped by single photons, an interaction also highly relevant to 
optical quantum computing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09175 
PMID: 20671705 


375. Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):597-600. doi: 10.1038/nature09259.

Pinning quantum phase transition for a Luttinger liquid of strongly interacting
bosons.

Haller E(1), Hart R, Mark MJ, Danzl JG, Reichsöllner L, Gustavsson M, Dalmonte M,
Pupillo G, Nägerl HC.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Experimentalphysik und Zentrum für Quantenphysik, Universität
Innsbruck, Technikerstrasse 25, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria.

Quantum many-body systems can have phase transitions even at zero temperature;
fluctuations arising from Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, as opposed to
thermal effects, drive the system from one phase to another. Typically, during
the transition the relative strength of two competing terms in the system's
Hamiltonian changes across a finite critical value. A well-known example is the
Mott-Hubbard quantum phase transition from a superfluid to an insulating phase,
which has been observed for weakly interacting bosonic atomic gases. However, for
strongly interacting quantum systems confined to lower-dimensional geometry, a
novel type of quantum phase transition may be induced and driven by an
arbitrarily weak perturbation to the Hamiltonian. Here we observe such an
effect--the sine-Gordon quantum phase transition from a superfluid Luttinger
liquid to a Mott insulator--in a one-dimensional quantum gas of bosonic caesium
atoms with tunable interactions. For sufficiently strong interactions, the
transition is induced by adding an arbitrarily weak optical lattice commensurate 
with the atomic granularity, which leads to immediate pinning of the atoms. We
map out the phase diagram and find that our measurements in the strongly
interacting regime agree well with a quantum field description based on the
exactly solvable sine-Gordon model. We trace the phase boundary all the way to
the weakly interacting regime, where we find good agreement with the predictions 
of the one-dimensional Bose-Hubbard model. Our results open up the experimental
study of quantum phase transitions, criticality and transport phenomena beyond
Hubbard-type models in the context of ultracold gases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09259 
PMID: 20671704 


376. Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):591-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09268.

Global phytoplankton decline over the past century.

Boyce DG(1), Lewis MR, Worm B.

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada, B3H
4J1. dboyce@dal.ca

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):569, 571.
    Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):E5-6; discussion E8-9.
    Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):E4-5; discussion E8-9.
    Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):E6-7; discussion E8-9.

In the oceans, ubiquitous microscopic phototrophs (phytoplankton) account for
approximately half the production of organic matter on Earth. Analyses of
satellite-derived phytoplankton concentration (available since 1979) have
suggested decadal-scale fluctuations linked to climate forcing, but the length of
this record is insufficient to resolve longer-term trends. Here we combine
available ocean transparency measurements and in situ chlorophyll observations to
estimate the time dependence of phytoplankton biomass at local, regional and
global scales since 1899. We observe declines in eight out of ten ocean regions, 
and estimate a global rate of decline of approximately 1% of the global median
per year. Our analyses further reveal interannual to decadal phytoplankton
fluctuations superimposed on long-term trends. These fluctuations are strongly
correlated with basin-scale climate indices, whereas long-term declining trends
are related to increasing sea surface temperatures. We conclude that global
phytoplankton concentration has declined over the past century; this decline will
need to be considered in future studies of marine ecosystems, geochemical
cycling, ocean circulation and fisheries.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09268 
PMID: 20671703  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):585-90. doi: 10.1038/nature09277.

Observation of neutral modes in the fractional quantum Hall regime.

Bid A(1), Ofek N, Inoue H, Heiblum M, Kane CL, Umansky V, Mahalu D.

Author information: 
(1)Braun Center for Submicron Research, Department of Condensed Matter Physics,
Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):572-3.

The quantum Hall effect takes place in a two-dimensional electron gas under a
strong magnetic field and involves current flow along the edges of the sample.
For some particle-hole conjugate states of the fractional regime (for example,
with fillings between 1/2 and 1 of the lowest Landau level), early predictions
suggested the presence of counter-propagating edge currents in addition to the
expected ones. When this did not agree with the measured conductance, it was
suggested that disorder and interactions will lead to counter-propagating modes
that carry only energy--the so called neutral modes. In addition, a neutral
upstream mode (the Majorana mode) was expected for selected wavefunctions
proposed for the even-denominator filling 5/2. Here we report the direct
observation of counter-propagating neutral modes for fillings of 2/3, 3/5 and
5/2. The basis of our approach is that, if such modes impinge on a narrow
constriction, the neutral quasiparticles will be partly reflected and fragmented 
into charge carriers, which can be detected through shot noise measurements. We
find that the resultant shot noise is proportional to the injected current.
Moreover, when we simultaneously inject a charge mode, the presence of the
neutral mode was found to significantly affect the Fano factor and the
temperature of the backscattered charge mode. In particular, such observations
for filling 5/2 may single out the non-Abelian wavefunctions for the state.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09277 
PMID: 20671702 


378. Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):575-84. doi: 10.1038/nature09215.

The four hundred years of planetary science since Galileo and Kepler.

Burns JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy and College of Engineering, 328 Space Sciences
Building, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853-6801, USA. jab16@cornell.edu

For 350 years after Galileo's discoveries, ground-based telescopes and
theoretical modelling furnished everything we knew about the Sun's planetary
retinue. Over the past five decades, however, spacecraft visits to many targets
transformed these early notions, revealing the diversity of Solar System bodies
and displaying active planetary processes at work. Violent events have punctuated
the histories of many planets and satellites, changing them substantially since
their birth. Contemporary knowledge has finally allowed testable models of the
Solar System's origin to be developed and potential abodes for extraterrestrial
life to be explored. Future planetary research should involve focused studies of 
selected targets, including exoplanets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09215 
PMID: 20671701 


379. Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):561. doi: 10.1038/466561a.

Regulation must be revolutionized.

Potrykus I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Golden Rice Humanitarian Board. ingo@potrykus.ch

Unjustified and impractical legal requirements are stopping genetically
engineered crops from saving millions from starvation and malnutrition, says Ingo
Potrykus.

DOI: 10.1038/466561a 
PMID: 20671692  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):558-60. doi: 10.1038/466558a.

Monitoring the world's agriculture.

Sachs J(1), Remans R, Smukler S, Winowiecki L, Andelman SJ, Cassman KG, Castle D,
DeFries R, Denning G, Fanzo J, Jackson LE, Leemans R, Lehmann J, Milder JC, Naeem
S, Nziguheba G, Palm CA, Pingali PL, Reganold JP, Richter DD, Scherr SJ, Sircely 
J, Sullivan C, Tomich TP, Sanchez PA.

Author information: 
(1)Earth Institute, Columbia University.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):920.
    Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):920.
    Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):920.

To feed the world without further damaging the planet, Jeffrey Sachs and 24
foodsystem experts call for a global data collection and dissemination network to
track the myriad impacts of different farming practices.

DOI: 10.1038/466558a 
PMID: 20671691  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):532. doi: 10.1038/466532a.

Save the census.

[No authors listed]

The Canadian government should rethink its decision to change the way census data
are collected.

DOI: 10.1038/466532a 
PMID: 20671665  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):531-2. doi: 10.1038/466531a.

How to feed a hungry world.

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):920.

Producing enough food for the world's population in 2050 will be easy. But doing 
it at an acceptable cost to the planet will depend on research into everything
from high-tech seeds to low-tech farming practices.

DOI: 10.1038/466531a 
PMID: 20671664  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):632-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09173. Epub 2010 Jul 18.

Cross-species genomics matches driver mutations and cell compartments to model
ependymoma.

Johnson RA(1), Wright KD, Poppleton H, Mohankumar KM, Finkelstein D, Pounds SB,
Rand V, Leary SE, White E, Eden C, Hogg T, Northcott P, Mack S, Neale G, Wang YD,
Coyle B, Atkinson J, DeWire M, Kranenburg TA, Gillespie Y, Allen JC, Merchant T, 
Boop FA, Sanford RA, Gajjar A, Ellison DW, Taylor MD, Grundy RG, Gilbertson RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Neurobiology, St Jude Children's Research
Hospital, 262 Danny Thomas Place, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.

Understanding the biology that underlies histologically similar but molecularly
distinct subgroups of cancer has proven difficult because their defining genetic 
alterations are often numerous, and the cellular origins of most cancers remain
unknown. We sought to decipher this heterogeneity by integrating matched genetic 
alterations and candidate cells of origin to generate accurate disease models.
First, we identified subgroups of human ependymoma, a form of neural tumour that 
arises throughout the central nervous system (CNS). Subgroup-specific alterations
included amplifications and homozygous deletions of genes not yet implicated in
ependymoma. To select cellular compartments most likely to give rise to subgroups
of ependymoma, we matched the transcriptomes of human tumours to those of mouse
neural stem cells (NSCs), isolated from different regions of the CNS at different
developmental stages, with an intact or deleted Ink4a/Arf locus (that encodes
Cdkn2a and b). The transcriptome of human supratentorial ependymomas with
amplified EPHB2 and deleted INK4A/ARF matched only that of embryonic cerebral
Ink4a/Arf(-/-) NSCs. Notably, activation of Ephb2 signalling in these, but not
other, NSCs generated the first mouse model of ependymoma, which is highly
penetrant and accurately models the histology and transcriptome of one subgroup
of human supratentorial tumour. Further, comparative analysis of matched mouse
and human tumours revealed selective deregulation in the expression and copy
number of genes that control synaptogenesis, pinpointing disruption of this
pathway as a critical event in the production of this ependymoma subgroup. Our
data demonstrate the power of cross-species genomics to meticulously match
subgroup-specific driver mutations with cellular compartments to model and
interrogate cancer subgroups.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09173 
PMCID: PMC2912966
PMID: 20639864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):612-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09172. Epub 2010 Jul 11.

Convergent evolution of chicken Z and human X chromosomes by expansion and gene
acquisition.

Bellott DW(1), Skaletsky H, Pyntikova T, Mardis ER, Graves T, Kremitzki C, Brown 
LG, Rozen S, Warren WC, Wilson RK, Page DC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 9 Cambridge
Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.

In birds, as in mammals, one pair of chromosomes differs between the sexes. In
birds, males are ZZ and females ZW. In mammals, males are XY and females XX. Like
the mammalian XY pair, the avian ZW pair is believed to have evolved from
autosomes, with most change occurring in the chromosomes found in only one
sex--the W and Y chromosomes. By contrast, the sex chromosomes found in both
sexes--the Z and X chromosomes--are assumed to have diverged little from their
autosomal progenitors. Here we report findings that challenge this assumption for
both the chicken Z chromosome and the human X chromosome. The chicken Z
chromosome, which we sequenced essentially to completion, is less gene-dense than
chicken autosomes but contains a massive tandem array containing hundreds of
duplicated genes expressed in testes. A comprehensive comparison of the chicken Z
chromosome with the finished sequence of the human X chromosome demonstrates that
each evolved independently from different portions of the ancestral genome.
Despite this independence, the chicken Z and human X chromosomes share features
that distinguish them from autosomes: the acquisition and amplification of
testis-expressed genes, and a low gene density resulting from an expansion of
intergenic regions. These features were not present on the autosomes from which
the Z and X chromosomes originated but were instead acquired during the evolution
of Z and X as sex chromosomes. We conclude that the avian Z and mammalian X
chromosomes followed convergent evolutionary trajectories, despite their evolving
with opposite (female versus male) systems of heterogamety. More broadly, in
birds and mammals, sex chromosome evolution involved not only gene loss in
sex-specific chromosomes, but also marked expansion and gene acquisition in sex
chromosomes common to males and females.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09172 
PMCID: PMC2943333
PMID: 20622855  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):647-51. doi: 10.1038/nature09163. Epub 2010 Jul 7.

Subnanometre single-molecule localization, registration and distance
measurements.

Pertsinidis A(1), Zhang Y, Chu S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
pertsin@berkeley.edu

Remarkable progress in optical microscopy has been made in the measurement of
nanometre distances. If diffraction blurs the image of a point object into an
Airy disk with a root-mean-squared (r.m.s.) size of s = 0.44lambda/2NA
(approximately 90 nm for light with a wavelength of lambda = 600 nm and an
objective lens with a numerical aperture of NA = 1.49), limiting the resolution
of the far-field microscope in use to d = 2.4s approximately = 200 nm, additional
knowledge about the specimen can be used to great advantage. For example, if the 
source is known to be two spatially resolved fluorescent molecules, the distance 
between them is given by the separation of the centres of the two fluorescence
images. In high-resolution microwave and optical spectroscopy, there are numerous
examples where the line centre is determined with a precision of less than 10(-6)
of the linewidth. In contrast, in biological applications the brightest single
fluorescent emitters can be detected with a signal-to-noise ratio of
approximately 100, limiting the centroid localization precision to s(loc) > or = 
1% (> or = 1 nm) of the r.m.s. size, s, of the microscope point spread function
(PSF). Moreover, the error in co-localizing two or more single emitters is
notably worse, remaining greater than 5-10% (5-10 nm) of the PSF size. Here we
report a distance resolution of s(reg) = 0.50 nm (1sigma) and an absolute
accuracy of s(distance) = 0.77 nm (1sigma) in a measurement of the separation
between differently coloured fluorescent molecules using conventional far-field
fluorescence imaging in physiological buffer conditions. The statistical
uncertainty in the mean for an ensemble of identical single-molecule samples is
limited only by the total number of collected photons, to s(loc) approximately
0.3 nm, which is approximately 3 x 10(-3) times the size of the optical PSF. Our 
method may also be used to improve the resolution of many subwavelength,
far-field imaging methods such as those based on co-localization of molecules
that are stochastically switched on in space. The improved resolution will allow 
the structure of large, multisubunit biological complexes in biologically
relevant environments to be deciphered at the single-molecule level.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09163 
PMID: 20613725  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):622-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09159. Epub 2010 Jul 7.

Regulation of parkinsonian motor behaviours by optogenetic control of basal
ganglia circuitry.

Kravitz AV(1), Freeze BS, Parker PR, Kay K, Thwin MT, Deisseroth K, Kreitzer AC.

Author information: 
(1)Gladstone Institute of Neurological Disease, 1650 Owens St, San Francisco,
California 94158, USA.

Neural circuits of the basal ganglia are critical for motor planning and action
selection. Two parallel basal ganglia pathways have been described, and have been
proposed to exert opposing influences on motor function. According to this
classical model, activation of the 'direct' pathway facilitates movement and
activation of the 'indirect' pathway inhibits movement. However, more recent
anatomical and functional evidence has called into question the validity of this 
hypothesis. Because this model has never been empirically tested, the specific
function of these circuits in behaving animals remains unknown. Here we report
direct activation of basal ganglia circuitry in vivo, using optogenetic control
of direct- and indirect-pathway medium spiny projection neurons (MSNs), achieved 
through Cre-dependent viral expression of channelrhodopsin-2 in the striatum of
bacterial artificial chromosome transgenic mice expressing Cre recombinase under 
control of regulatory elements for the dopamine D1 or D2 receptor. Bilateral
excitation of indirect-pathway MSNs elicited a parkinsonian state, distinguished 
by increased freezing, bradykinesia and decreased locomotor initiations. In
contrast, activation of direct-pathway MSNs reduced freezing and increased
locomotion. In a mouse model of Parkinson's disease, direct-pathway activation
completely rescued deficits in freezing, bradykinesia and locomotor initiation.
Taken together, our findings establish a critical role for basal ganglia
circuitry in the bidirectional regulation of motor behaviour and indicate that
modulation of direct-pathway circuitry may represent an effective therapeutic
strategy for ameliorating parkinsonian motor deficits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09159 
PMCID: PMC3552484
PMID: 20613723  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):617-21. doi: 10.1038/nature09178. Epub 2010 Jul 4.

Sparse coding and high-order correlations in fine-scale cortical networks.

Ohiorhenuan IE(1), Mechler F, Purpura KP, Schmid AM, Hu Q, Victor JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neuroscience, Weill Cornell Medical College, New
York, New York 10065, USA. ifo2001@med.cornell.edu

Connectivity in the cortex is organized at multiple scales, suggesting that
scale-dependent correlated activity is particularly important for understanding
the behaviour of sensory cortices and their function in stimulus encoding. We
analysed the scale-dependent structure of cortical interactions by using maximum 
entropy models to characterize multiple-tetrode recordings from primary visual
cortex of anaesthetized macaque monkeys (Macaca mulatta). We compared the
properties of firing patterns among local clusters of neurons (<300 microm apart)
with those of neurons separated by larger distances (600-2,500 microm). Here we
report that local firing patterns are distinctive: whereas multi-neuronal firing 
patterns at larger distances can be predicted by pairwise interactions, patterns 
within local clusters often show evidence of high-order correlations.
Surprisingly, these local correlations are flexible and rapidly reorganized by
visual input. Although they modestly reduce the amount of information that a
cluster conveys, they also modify the format of this information, creating
sparser codes by increasing the periods of total quiescence, and concentrating
information into briefer periods of common activity. These results imply a
hierarchical organization of neuronal correlations: simple pairwise correlations 
link neurons over scales of tens to hundreds of minicolumns, but on the scale of 
a few minicolumns, ensembles of neurons form complex subnetworks whose
moment-to-moment effective connectivity is dynamically reorganized by the
stimulus.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09178 
PMCID: PMC2912961
PMID: 20601940  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):627-31. doi: 10.1038/nature09253.

Disruption of the clock components CLOCK and BMAL1 leads to hypoinsulinaemia and 
diabetes.

Marcheva B(1), Ramsey KM, Buhr ED, Kobayashi Y, Su H, Ko CH, Ivanova G, Omura C, 
Mo S, Vitaterna MH, Lopez JP, Philipson LH, Bradfield CA, Crosby SD, JeBailey L, 
Wang X, Takahashi JS, Bass J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine,
Chicago, Illinois 60611, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):571-2.

The molecular clock maintains energy constancy by producing circadian
oscillations of rate-limiting enzymes involved in tissue metabolism across the
day and night. During periods of feeding, pancreatic islets secrete insulin to
maintain glucose homeostasis, and although rhythmic control of insulin release is
recognized to be dysregulated in humans with diabetes, it is not known how the
circadian clock may affect this process. Here we show that pancreatic islets
possess self-sustained circadian gene and protein oscillations of the
transcription factors CLOCK and BMAL1. The phase of oscillation of islet genes
involved in growth, glucose metabolism and insulin signalling is delayed in
circadian mutant mice, and both Clock and Bmal1 (also called Arntl) mutants show 
impaired glucose tolerance, reduced insulin secretion and defects in size and
proliferation of pancreatic islets that worsen with age. Clock disruption leads
to transcriptome-wide alterations in the expression of islet genes involved in
growth, survival and synaptic vesicle assembly. Notably, conditional ablation of 
the pancreatic clock causes diabetes mellitus due to defective beta-cell function
at the very latest stage of stimulus-secretion coupling. These results
demonstrate a role for the beta-cell clock in coordinating insulin secretion with
the sleep-wake cycle, and reveal that ablation of the pancreatic clock can
trigger the onset of diabetes mellitus.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09253 
PMCID: PMC2920067
PMID: 20562852  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Nature. 2010 Jul 22;466(7305):482-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09210.

Coupled dynamics of body mass and population growth in response to environmental 
change.

Ozgul A(1), Childs DZ, Oli MK, Armitage KB, Blumstein DT, Olson LE, Tuljapurkar
S, Coulson T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Imperial College London, Ascot, Berkshire SL5
7PY, UK. a.ozgul@imperial.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 22;466(7305):445-7.

Environmental change has altered the phenology, morphological traits and
population dynamics of many species. However, the links underlying these joint
responses remain largely unknown owing to a paucity of long-term data and the
lack of an appropriate analytical framework. Here we investigate the link between
phenotypic and demographic responses to environmental change using a new
methodology and a long-term (1976-2008) data set from a hibernating mammal (the
yellow-bellied marmot) inhabiting a dynamic subalpine habitat. We demonstrate how
earlier emergence from hibernation and earlier weaning of young has led to a
longer growing season and larger body masses before hibernation. The resulting
shift in both the phenotype and the relationship between phenotype and fitness
components led to a decline in adult mortality, which in turn triggered an abrupt
increase in population size in recent years. Direct and trait-mediated effects of
environmental change made comparable contributions to the observed marked
increase in population growth. Our results help explain how a shift in phenology 
can cause simultaneous phenotypic and demographic changes, and highlight the need
for a theory integrating ecological and evolutionary dynamics in stochastic
environments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09210 
PMCID: PMC5677226
PMID: 20651690  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Nature. 2010 Jul 22;466(7305):478-81. doi: 10.1038/nature09186.

Temperature-controlled organic carbon mineralization in lake sediments.

Gudasz C(1), Bastviken D, Steger K, Premke K, Sobek S, Tranvik LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Limnology, Department of Ecology and Evolution, Uppsala University, Norbyvägen
18D, SE-752 36 Uppsala, Sweden. cristian.gudasz@ebc.uu.se

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1134.

Peatlands, soils and the ocean floor are well-recognized as sites of organic
carbon accumulation and represent important global carbon sinks. Although the
annual burial of organic carbon in lakes and reservoirs exceeds that of ocean
sediments, these inland waters are components of the global carbon cycle that
receive only limited attention. Of the organic carbon that is being deposited
onto the sediments, a certain proportion will be mineralized and the remainder
will be buried over geological timescales. Here we assess the relationship
between sediment organic carbon mineralization and temperature in a cross-system 
survey of boreal lakes in Sweden, and with input from a compilation of published 
data from a wide range of lakes that differ with respect to climate, productivity
and organic carbon source. We find that the mineralization of organic carbon in
lake sediments exhibits a strongly positive relationship with temperature, which 
suggests that warmer water temperatures lead to more mineralization and less
organic carbon burial. Assuming that future organic carbon delivery to the lake
sediments will be similar to that under present-day conditions, we estimate that 
temperature increases following the latest scenarios presented by the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change could result in a 4-27 per cent
(0.9-6.4 Tg C yr(-1)) decrease in annual organic carbon burial in boreal lakes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09186 
PMID: 20651689  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Nature. 2010 Jul 22;466(7305):474-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09188.

Binary nanocrystal superlattice membranes self-assembled at the liquid-air
interface.

Dong A(1), Chen J, Vora PM, Kikkawa JM, Murray CB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19104, USA. angang@sas.upenn.edu

The spontaneous organization of multicomponent micrometre-sized colloids or
nanocrystals into superlattices is of scientific importance for understanding the
assembly process on the nanometre scale and is of great interest for bottom-up
fabrication of functional devices. In particular, co-assembly of two types of
nanocrystal into binary nanocrystal superlattices (BNSLs) has recently attracted 
significant attention, as this provides a low-cost, programmable way to design
metamaterials with precisely controlled properties that arise from the
organization and interactions of the constituent nanocrystal components. Although
challenging, the ability to grow and manipulate large-scale BNSLs is critical for
extensive exploration of this new class of material. Here we report a general
method of growing centimetre-scale, uniform membranes of BNSLs that can readily
be transferred to arbitrary substrates. Our method is based on the liquid-air
interfacial assembly of multicomponent nanocrystals and circumvents the
limitations associated with the current assembly strategies, allowing integration
of BNSLs on any substrate for the fabrication of nanocrystal-based devices. We
demonstrate the construction of magnetoresistive devices by incorporating
large-area (1.5 mm x 2.5 mm) BNSL membranes; their magnetotransport measurements 
clearly show that device magnetoresistance is dependent on the structure
(stoichiometry) of the BNSLs. The ability to transfer BNSLs also allows the
construction of free-standing membranes and other complex architectures that have
not been accessible previously.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09188 
PMID: 20651688 


392. Nature. 2010 Jul 22;466(7305):470-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09211.

Atomically precise bottom-up fabrication of graphene nanoribbons.

Cai J(1), Ruffieux P, Jaafar R, Bieri M, Braun T, Blankenburg S, Muoth M,
Seitsonen AP, Saleh M, Feng X, Müllen K, Fasel R.

Author information: 
(1)Empa, Swiss Federal Laboratories for Materials Science and Technology, Thun
and 8600 Dübendorf, Switzerland.

Graphene nanoribbons-narrow and straight-edged stripes of graphene, or
single-layer graphite-are predicted to exhibit electronic properties that make
them attractive for the fabrication of nanoscale electronic devices. In
particular, although the two-dimensional parent material graphene exhibits
semimetallic behaviour, quantum confinement and edge effects should render all
graphene nanoribbons with widths smaller than 10 nm semiconducting. But exploring
the potential of graphene nanoribbons is hampered by their limited availability: 
although they have been made using chemical, sonochemical and lithographic
methods as well as through the unzipping of carbon nanotubes, the reliable
production of graphene nanoribbons smaller than 10 nm with chemical precision
remains a significant challenge. Here we report a simple method for the
production of atomically precise graphene nanoribbons of different topologies and
widths, which uses surface-assisted coupling of molecular precursors into linear 
polyphenylenes and their subsequent cyclodehydrogenation. The topology, width and
edge periphery of the graphene nanoribbon products are defined by the structure
of the precursor monomers, which can be designed to give access to a wide range
of different graphene nanoribbons. We expect that our bottom-up approach to the
atomically precise fabrication of graphene nanoribbons will finally enable
detailed experimental investigations of the properties of this exciting class of 
materials. It should even provide a route to graphene nanoribbon structures with 
engineered chemical and electronic properties, including the theoretically
predicted intraribbon quantum dots, superlattice structures and magnetic devices 
based on specific graphene nanoribbon edge states.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09211 
PMID: 20651687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Nature. 2010 Jul 22;466(7305):466-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09274.

Lunar apatite with terrestrial volatile abundances.

Boyce JW(1), Liu Y, Rossman GR, Guan Y, Eiler JM, Stolper EM, Taylor LA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Geological and Planetary Sciences, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125-2500, USA. jwboyce@alum.mit.edu

The Moon is thought to be depleted relative to the Earth in volatile elements
such as H, Cl and the alkalis. Nevertheless, evidence for lunar explosive
volcanism has been used to infer that some lunar magmas exsolved a CO-rich and
CO(2)-rich vapour phase before or during eruption. Although there is also
evidence for other volatile species on glass spherules, until recently there had 
been no unambiguous reports of indigenous H in lunar rocks. Here we report
quantitative ion microprobe measurements of late-stage apatite from lunar basalt 
14053 that document concentrations of H, Cl and S that are indistinguishable from
apatites in common terrestrial igneous rocks. These volatile contents could
reflect post-magmatic metamorphic volatile addition or growth from a late-stage, 
interstitial, sulphide-saturated melt that contained approximately 1,600 parts
per million H(2)O and approximately 3,500 parts per million Cl. Both metamorphic 
and igneous models of apatite formation suggest a volatile inventory for at least
some lunar materials that is similar to comparable terrestrial materials. One
possible implication is that portions of the lunar mantle or crust are more
volatile-rich than previously thought.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09274 
PMID: 20651686 


394. Nature. 2010 Jul 22;466(7305):463-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09187.

An intensity map of hydrogen 21-cm emission at redshift z approximately 0.8.

Chang TC(1), Pen UL, Bandura K, Peterson JB.

Author information: 
(1)IAA, Academia Sinica, PO Box 23-141, Taipei 10617, Taiwan.
tchang@cita.utoronto.ca

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 22;466(7305):444-5.

Observations of 21-cm radio emission by neutral hydrogen at redshifts z
approximately 0.5 to approximately 2.5 are expected to provide a sensitive probe 
of cosmic dark energy. This is particularly true around the onset of acceleration
at z approximately 1, where traditional optical cosmology becomes very difficult 
because of the infrared opacity of the atmosphere. Hitherto, 21-cm emission has
been detected only to z = 0.24. More distant galaxies generally are too faint for
individual detections but it is possible to measure the aggregate emission from
many unresolved galaxies in the 'cosmic web'. Here we report a three-dimensional 
21-cm intensity field at z = 0.53 to 1.12. We then co-add neutral-hydrogen (H i) 
emission from the volumes surrounding about 10,000 galaxies (from the DEEP2
optical galaxy redshift survey). We detect the aggregate 21-cm glow at a
significance of approximately 4sigma.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09187 
PMID: 20651685 


395. Nature. 2010 Jul 22;466(7305):457-62. doi: 10.1038/nature09263.

Start/stop signals emerge in nigrostriatal circuits during sequence learning.

Jin X(1), Costa RM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Integrative Neuroscience, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse
and Alcoholism, National Institutes of Health, 5625 Fishers Lane, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892-9412, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 22;466(7305):449.

Learning new action sequences subserves a plethora of different abilities such as
escaping a predator, playing the piano, or producing fluent speech. Proper
initiation and termination of each action sequence is critical for the
organization of behaviour, and is compromised in nigrostriatal disorders like
Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases. Using a self-paced operant task in which
mice learn to perform a particular sequence of actions to obtain an outcome, we
found neural activity in nigrostriatal circuits specifically signalling the
initiation or the termination of each action sequence. This start/stop activity
emerged during sequence learning, was specific for particular actions, and did
not reflect interval timing, movement speed or action value. Furthermore,
genetically altering the function of striatal circuits disrupted the development 
of start/stop activity and selectively impaired sequence learning. These results 
have important implications for understanding the functional organization of
actions and the sequence initiation and termination impairments observed in basal
ganglia disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09263 
PMCID: PMC3477867
PMID: 20651684  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Nature. 2010 Jul 22;466(7305):451-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09291.

Anti-diabetic drugs inhibit obesity-linked phosphorylation of PPARgamma by Cdk5.

Choi JH(1), Banks AS, Estall JL, Kajimura S, Boström P, Laznik D, Ruas JL,
Chalmers MJ, Kamenecka TM, Blüher M, Griffin PR, Spiegelman BM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Biology and Division of Metabolism and Chronic Disease,
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 22;466(7305):443-4.

Obesity induced in mice by high-fat feeding activates the protein kinase Cdk5
(cyclin-dependent kinase 5) in adipose tissues. This results in phosphorylation
of the nuclear receptor PPARgamma (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor
gamma), a dominant regulator of adipogenesis and fat cell gene expression, at
serine 273. This modification of PPARgamma does not alter its adipogenic
capacity, but leads to dysregulation of a large number of genes whose expression 
is altered in obesity, including a reduction in the expression of the
insulin-sensitizing adipokine, adiponectin. The phosphorylation of PPARgamma by
Cdk5 is blocked by anti-diabetic PPARgamma ligands, such as rosiglitazone and
MRL24. This inhibition works both in vivo and in vitro, and is completely
independent of classical receptor transcriptional agonism. Similarly, inhibition 
of PPARgamma phosphorylation in obese patients by rosiglitazone is very tightly
associated with the anti-diabetic effects of this drug. All these findings
strongly suggest that Cdk5-mediated phosphorylation of PPARgamma may be involved 
in the pathogenesis of insulin-resistance, and present an opportunity for
development of an improved generation of anti-diabetic drugs through PPARgamma.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09291 
PMCID: PMC2987584
PMID: 20651683  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Nature. 2010 Jul 22;466(7305):E1. doi: 10.1038/nature09255.

Segregation of yeast nuclear pores.

Khmelinskii A(1), Keller PJ, Lorenz H, Schiebel E, Knop M.

Author information: 
(1)Zentrum für Molekulare Biologie der Universität Heidelberg, DKFZ-ZMBH
Alliance, Im Neuenheimer Feld 282, D-69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

Comment on
    Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):728-34.

During mitosis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, senescence factors such as
extrachromosomal ribosomal DNA circles (ERCs) are retained in the mother cell and
excluded from the bud/daughter cell. Shcheprova et al. proposed a model
suggesting segregation of ERCs through their association with nuclear pore
complexes (NPCs) and retention of pre-existing NPCs in the mother cell during
mitosis. However, this model is inconsistent with previous data and we
demonstrate here that NPCs do efficiently migrate from the mother into the bud.
Therefore, binding to NPCs does not seem to explain the retention of ERCs in the 
mother cell.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09255 
PMID: 20651645  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Nature. 2010 Jul 22;466(7305):508-12. doi: 10.1038/nature09272. Epub 2010 Jul 11.

PHF8 mediates histone H4 lysine 20 demethylation events involved in cell cycle
progression.

Liu W(1), Tanasa B, Tyurina OV, Zhou TY, Gassmann R, Liu WT, Ohgi KA, Benner C,
Garcia-Bassets I, Aggarwal AK, Desai A, Dorrestein PC, Glass CK, Rosenfeld MG.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, School of Medicine, University of California 
at San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.

While reversible histone modifications are linked to an ever-expanding range of
biological functions, the demethylases for histone H4 lysine 20 and their
potential regulatory roles remain unknown. Here we report that the PHD and
Jumonji C (JmjC) domain-containing protein, PHF8, while using multiple
substrates, including H3K9me1/2 and H3K27me2, also functions as an H4K20me1
demethylase. PHF8 is recruited to promoters by its PHD domain based on
interaction with H3K4me2/3 and controls G1-S transition in conjunction with E2F1,
HCF-1 (also known as HCFC1) and SET1A (also known as SETD1A), at least in part,
by removing the repressive H4K20me1 mark from a subset of E2F1-regulated gene
promoters. Phosphorylation-dependent PHF8 dismissal from chromatin in prophase is
apparently required for the accumulation of H4K20me1 during early mitosis, which 
might represent a component of the condensin II loading process. Accordingly, the
HEAT repeat clusters in two non-structural maintenance of chromosomes (SMC)
condensin II subunits, N-CAPD3 and N-CAPG2 (also known as NCAPD3 and NCAPG2,
respectively), are capable of recognizing H4K20me1, and ChIP-Seq analysis
demonstrates a significant overlap of condensin II and H4K20me1 sites in mitotic 
HeLa cells. Thus, the identification and characterization of an H4K20me1
demethylase, PHF8, has revealed an intimate link between this enzyme and two
distinct events in cell cycle progression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09272 
PMCID: PMC3059551
PMID: 20622854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Nature. 2010 Jul 22;466(7305):503-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09261. Epub 2010 Jul 11.

Histone H4K20/H3K9 demethylase PHF8 regulates zebrafish brain and craniofacial
development.

Qi HH(1), Sarkissian M, Hu GQ, Wang Z, Bhattacharjee A, Gordon DB, Gonzales M,
Lan F, Ongusaha PP, Huarte M, Yaghi NK, Lim H, Garcia BA, Brizuela L, Zhao K,
Roberts TM, Shi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, 
USA.

X-linked mental retardation (XLMR) is a complex human disease that causes
intellectual disability. Causal mutations have been found in approximately 90
X-linked genes; however, molecular and biological functions of many of these
genetically defined XLMR genes remain unknown. PHF8 (PHD (plant homeo domain)
finger protein 8) is a JmjC domain-containing protein and its mutations have been
found in patients with XLMR and craniofacial deformities. Here we provide
multiple lines of evidence establishing PHF8 as the first mono-methyl histone H4 
lysine 20 (H4K20me1) demethylase, with additional activities towards histone
H3K9me1 and me2. PHF8 is located around the transcription start sites (TSS) of
approximately 7,000 RefSeq genes and in gene bodies and intergenic regions
(non-TSS). PHF8 depletion resulted in upregulation of H4K20me1 and H3K9me1 at the
TSS and H3K9me2 in the non-TSS sites, respectively, demonstrating differential
substrate specificities at different target locations. PHF8 positively regulates 
gene expression, which is dependent on its H3K4me3-binding PHD and catalytic
domains. Importantly, patient mutations significantly compromised PHF8 catalytic 
function. PHF8 regulates cell survival in the zebrafish brain and jaw
development, thus providing a potentially relevant biological context for
understanding the clinical symptoms associated with PHF8 patients. Lastly,
genetic and molecular evidence supports a model whereby PHF8 regulates zebrafish 
neuronal cell survival and jaw development in part by directly regulating the
expression of the homeodomain transcription factor MSX1/MSXB, which functions
downstream of multiple signalling and developmental pathways. Our findings
indicate that an imbalance of histone methylation dynamics has a critical role in
XLMR.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09261 
PMCID: PMC3072215
PMID: 20622853  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Nature. 2010 Jul 22;466(7305):513-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09162. Epub 2010 Jul 7.

LRRC26 auxiliary protein allows BK channel activation at resting voltage without 
calcium.

Yan J(1), Aldrich RW.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Neurobiology, Center for Learning and Memory, University of Texas, 
Austin, Texas 78712, USA.

Large-conductance, voltage- and calcium-activated potassium (BK, or K(Ca)1.1)
channels are ubiquitously expressed in electrically excitable and non-excitable
cells, either as alpha-subunit (BKalpha) tetramers or together with tissue
specific auxiliary beta-subunits (beta1-beta4). Activation of BK channels
typically requires coincident membrane depolarization and elevation in free
cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)), which are not physiological
conditions for most non-excitable cells. Here we present evidence that in
non-excitable LNCaP prostate cancer cells, BK channels can be activated at
negative voltages without rises in [Ca(2+)](i) through their complex with an
auxiliary protein, leucine-rich repeat (LRR)-containing protein 26 (LRRC26).
LRRC26 modulates the gating of a BK channel by enhancing the allosteric coupling 
between voltage-sensor activation and the channel's closed-open transition. This 
finding reveals a novel auxiliary protein of a voltage-gated ion channel that
gives an unprecedentedly large negative shift ( approximately -140 mV) in voltage
dependence and provides a molecular basis for activation of BK channels at
physiological voltages and calcium levels in non-excitable cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09162 
PMID: 20613726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Nature. 2010 Jul 22;466(7305):498-502. doi: 10.1038/nature09184. Epub 2010 Jul 7.

A new DAF-16 isoform regulates longevity.

Kwon ES(1), Narasimhan SD, Yen K, Tissenbaum HA.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Gene Function and Expression, University of Massachusetts Medical
School, Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA.

The insulin/IGF-1 signalling (IIS) pathway has diverse roles from metabolism to
longevity. In Caenorhabditis elegans, the single forkhead box O (FOXO) homologue,
DAF-16, functions as the major target of the IIS pathway. One of two isoforms,
DAF-16a, is known to regulate longevity, stress response and dauer diapause.
However, it remains unclear how DAF-16 achieves its specificity in regulating
these various biological processes. Here we identify a new isoform, DAF-16d/f, as
an important isoform regulating longevity. We show that DAF-16 isoforms
functionally cooperate to modulate IIS-mediated processes through differential
tissue enrichment, preferential modulation by upstream kinases, and regulating
distinct and overlapping target genes. Promoter-swapping experiments show both
the promoter and the coding region of DAF-16 are important for its function.
Importantly, in mammals, four FOXO genes have overlapping and different
functions, and in C. elegans, a single FOXO/DAF-16 uses distinct isoforms to
fine-tune the IIS-mediated processes in the context of a whole organism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09184 
PMCID: PMC3109862
PMID: 20613724  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Nature. 2010 Jul 22;466(7305):486-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09058. Epub 2010 Jun 30.

Allelic variation in a fatty-acyl reductase gene causes divergence in moth sex
pheromones.

Lassance JM(1), Groot AT, Liénard MA, Antony B, Borgwardt C, Andersson F,
Hedenström E, Heckel DG, Löfstedt C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Lund University, 22362 Lund, Sweden.

Pheromone-based behaviours are crucial in animals from insects to mammals, and
reproductive isolation is often based on pheromone differences. However, the
genetic mechanisms by which pheromone signals change during the evolution of new 
species are largely unknown. In the sexual communication system of moths
(Insecta: Lepidoptera), females emit a species-specific pheromone blend that
attracts males over long distances. The European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis, 
consists of two sex pheromone races, Z and E, that use different ratios of the
cis and trans isomers of acetate pheromone components. This subtle difference
leads to strong reproductive isolation in the field between the two races, which 
could represent a first step in speciation. Female sex pheromone production and
male behavioural response are under the control of different major genes, but the
identity of these genes is unknown. Here we show that allelic variation in a
fatty-acyl reductase gene essential for pheromone biosynthesis accounts for the
phenotypic variation in female pheromone production, leading to race-specific
signals. Both the cis and trans isomers of the pheromone precursors are produced 
by both races, but the precursors are differentially reduced to yield opposite
ratios in the final pheromone blend as a result of the substrate specificity of
the enzymes encoded by the Z and E alleles. This is the first functional
characterization of a gene contributing to intraspecific behavioural reproductive
isolation in moths, highlighting the importance of evolutionary diversification
in a lepidopteran-specific family of reductases. Accumulation of substitutions in
the coding region of a single biosynthetic enzyme can produce pheromone
differences resulting in reproductive isolation, with speciation as a potential
end result.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09058 
PMID: 20592730  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Nature. 2010 Jul 22;466(7305):494-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09164. Epub 2010 Jun 30.

Co-option of the hormone-signalling module dafachronic acid-DAF-12 in nematode
evolution.

Bento G(1), Ogawa A, Sommer RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department for Evolutionary Biology, Max-Planck-Institute for Developmental
Biology, Spemannstrasse 37; D-72076 Tübingen, Germany.

Morphological novelties are lineage-specific traits that serve new functions.
Developmental polyphenisms have been proposed to be facilitators of phenotypic
evolution, but little is known about the interplay between the associated genetic
and environmental factors. Here, we study two alternative morphologies in the
mouth of the nematode Pristionchus pacificus and the formation of teeth-like
structures that are associated with bacteriovorous feeding and predatory
behaviour on fungi and other worms. These teeth-like denticles represent an
evolutionary novelty, which is restricted to some members of the nematode family 
Diplogastridae but is absent from Caenorhabditis elegans and related nematodes.
We show that the mouth dimorphism is a polyphenism that is controlled by
starvation and the co-option of an endocrine switch mechanism. Mutations in the
nuclear hormone receptor DAF-12 and application of its ligand, the sterol hormone
dafachronic acid, strongly influence this switch mechanism. The dafachronic
acid-DAF-12 module has been shown to control the formation of arrested dauer
larvae in both C. elegans and P. pacificus, as well as related life-history
decisions in distantly related nematodes. The comparison of dauer formation and
mouth morphology switch reveals that different thresholds of dafachronic acid
signalling provide specificity. This study shows how hormonal signalling acts by 
coupling environmental change and genetic regulation and identifies dafachronic
acid as a key hormone in nematode evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09164 
PMID: 20592728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Nature. 2010 Jul 22;466(7305):490-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09158. Epub 2010 May 30.

Phenotypic robustness conferred by apparently redundant transcriptional
enhancers.

Frankel N(1), Davis GK, Vargas D, Wang S, Payre F, Stern DL.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2010 Jul;11(7):454.

Genes include cis-regulatory regions that contain transcriptional enhancers.
Recent reports have shown that developmental genes often possess multiple
discrete enhancer modules that drive transcription in similar spatio-temporal
patterns: primary enhancers located near the basal promoter and secondary, or
'shadow', enhancers located at more remote positions. It has been proposed that
the seemingly redundant activity of primary and secondary enhancers contributes
to phenotypic robustness. We tested this hypothesis by generating a deficiency
that removes two newly discovered enhancers of shavenbaby (svb, a transcript of
the ovo locus), a gene encoding a transcription factor that directs development
of Drosophila larval trichomes. At optimal temperatures for embryonic
development, this deficiency causes minor defects in trichome patterning. In
embryos that develop at both low and high extreme temperatures, however, absence 
of these secondary enhancers leads to extensive loss of trichomes. These
temperature-dependent defects can be rescued by a transgene carrying a secondary 
enhancer driving transcription of the svb cDNA. Finally, removal of one copy of
wingless, a gene required for normal trichome patterning, causes a similar loss
of trichomes only in flies lacking the secondary enhancers. These results support
the hypothesis that secondary enhancers contribute to phenotypic robustness in
the face of environmental and genetic variability.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09158 
PMCID: PMC2909378
PMID: 20512118  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Nature. 2010 Jul 15;466(7304):360-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09094.

New Oligocene primate from Saudi Arabia and the divergence of apes and Old World 
monkeys.

Zalmout IS(1), Sanders WJ, Maclatchy LM, Gunnell GF, Al-Mufarreh YA, Ali MA,
Nasser AA, Al-Masari AM, Al-Sobhi SA, Nadhra AO, Matari AH, Wilson JA, Gingerich 
PD.

Author information: 
(1)Museum of Paleontology, University of Michigan, 1109 Geddes Avenue, Ann Arbor,
Michigan 48109, USA. zalmouti@umich.edu

It is widely understood that Hominoidea (apes and humans) and Cercopithecoidea
(Old World monkeys) have a common ancestry as Catarrhini deeply rooted in
Afro-Arabia. The oldest stem Catarrhini in the fossil record are
Propliopithecoidea, known from the late Eocene to early Oligocene epochs (roughly
35-30 Myr ago) of Egypt, Oman and possibly Angola. Genome-based estimates for
divergence of hominoids and cercopithecoids range into the early Oligocene;
however, the mid-to-late Oligocene interval from 30 to 23 Myr ago has yielded
little fossil evidence documenting the morphology of the last common ancestor of 
hominoids and cercopithecoids, the timing of their divergence, or the
relationship of early stem and crown catarrhines. Here we describe the partial
cranium of a new medium-sized (about 15-20 kg) fossil catarrhine, Saadanius
hijazensis, dated to 29-28 Myr ago. Comparative anatomy and cladistic analysis
shows that Saadanius is an advanced stem catarrhine close to the base of the
hominoid-cercopithecoid clade. Saadanius is important for assessing competing
hypotheses about the ancestral morphotype for crown catarrhines, early catarrhine
phylogeny and the age of hominoid-cercopithecoid divergence. Saadanius has a
tubular ectotympanic but lacks synapomorphies of either group of crown
Catarrhini, and we infer that the hominoid-cercopithecoid split happened later,
between 29-28 and 24 Myr ago.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09094 
PMID: 20631798  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Nature. 2010 Jul 15;466(7304):356-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09251.

Striations, duration, migration and tidal response in deep tremor.

Ide S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Science, University of Tokyo, Hongo 7-3-1,
Bunkyo, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan. ide@eps.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Deep tremor in subduction zones is thought to be caused by small repeating shear 
slip events on the plate interface with significant slow components. It occurs at
a depth of about 30 kilometres and provides valuable information on deep plate
motion and shallow stress accumulation on the fault plane of megathrust
earthquakes. Tremor has been suggested to repeat at a regular interval, migrate
at various velocities and be modulated by tidal stress. Here I show that some
time-invariant interface property controls tremor behaviour, using precise
location of tremor sources with event duration in western Shikoku in the Nankai
subduction zone, Japan. In areas where tremor duration is short, tremor is more
strongly affected by tidal stress and migration is inhibited. Where tremor lasts 
longer, diffusive migration occurs with a constant diffusivity of 10(4) m(2)
s(-1). The control property may be the ratio of brittle to ductile areas, perhaps
determined by the influence of mantle wedge serpentinization on the plate
interface. The spatial variation of the controlling property seems to be
characterized by striations in tremor source distribution, which follows either
the current or previous plate subduction directions. This suggests that the
striations and corresponding interface properties are formed through the
subduction of inhomogeneous structure, such as seamounts, for periods as long as 
ten million years.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09251 
PMID: 20631797 


407. Nature. 2010 Jul 15;466(7304):352-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09216.

Diamonds sampled by plumes from the core-mantle boundary.

Torsvik TH(1), Burke K, Steinberger B, Webb SJ, Ashwal LD.

Author information: 
(1)Physics of Geological Processes and Geosciences, University of Oslo, Blindern,
0316 Oslo, Norway. trond.torsvik@ngu.no

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 15;466(7304):326-7.

Diamonds are formed under high pressure more than 150 kilometres deep in the
Earth's mantle and are brought to the surface mainly by volcanic rocks called
kimberlites. Several thousand kimberlites have been mapped on various scales, but
it is the distribution of kimberlites in the very old cratons (stable areas of
the continental lithosphere that are more than 2.5 billion years old and 300
kilometres thick or more) that have generated the most interest, because
kimberlites from those areas are the major carriers of economically viable
diamond resources. Kimberlites, which are themselves derived from depths of more 
than 150 kilometres, provide invaluable information on the composition of the
deep subcontinental mantle lithosphere, and on melting and metasomatic processes 
at or near the interface with the underlying flowing mantle. Here we use plate
reconstructions and tomographic images to show that the edges of the largest
heterogeneities in the deepest mantle, stable for at least 200 million years and 
possibly for 540 million years, seem to have controlled the eruption of most
Phanerozoic kimberlites. We infer that future exploration for kimberlites and
their included diamonds should therefore be concentrated in continents with old
cratons that once overlay these plume-generation zones at the core-mantle
boundary.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09216 
PMID: 20631796 


408. Nature. 2010 Jul 15;466(7304):347-51. doi: 10.1038/nature09169.

Intra-unit-cell electronic nematicity of the high-T(c) copper-oxide pseudogap
states.

Lawler MJ(1), Fujita K, Lee J, Schmidt AR, Kohsaka Y, Kim CK, Eisaki H, Uchida S,
Davis JC, Sethna JP, Kim EA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Applied Physics and Astronomy, Binghamton University,
Binghamton, New York 13902-6000, USA.

In the high-transition-temperature (high-T(c)) superconductors the pseudogap
phase becomes predominant when the density of doped holes is reduced. Within this
phase it has been unclear which electronic symmetries (if any) are broken, what
the identity of any associated order parameter might be, and which microscopic
electronic degrees of freedom are active. Here we report the determination of a
quantitative order parameter representing intra-unit-cell nematicity: the
breaking of rotational symmetry by the electronic structure within each CuO(2)
unit cell. We analyse spectroscopic-imaging scanning tunnelling microscope images
of the intra-unit-cell states in underdoped Bi(2)Sr(2)CaCu(2)O(8 +) (delta) and, 
using two independent evaluation techniques, find evidence for electronic
nematicity of the states close to the pseudogap energy. Moreover, we demonstrate 
directly that these phenomena arise from electronic differences at the two oxygen
sites within each unit cell. If the characteristics of the pseudogap seen here
and by other techniques all have the same microscopic origin, this phase involves
weak magnetic states at the O sites that break 90 degrees -rotational symmetry
within every CuO(2) unit cell.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09169 
PMID: 20631795 


409. Nature. 2010 Jul 15;466(7304):343-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09189.

Transmission of topological surface states through surface barriers.

Seo J(1), Roushan P, Beidenkopf H, Hor YS, Cava RJ, Yazdani A.

Author information: 
(1)Joseph Henry Laboratories & Department of Physics, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 15;466(7304):323-4.

Topological surface states are a class of novel electronic states that are of
potential interest in quantum computing or spintronic applications. Unlike
conventional two-dimensional electron states, these surface states are expected
to be immune to localization and to overcome barriers caused by material
imperfection. Previous experiments have demonstrated that topological surface
states do not backscatter between equal and opposite momentum states, owing to
their chiral spin texture. However, so far there is no evidence that these states
in fact transmit through naturally occurring surface defects. Here we use a
scanning tunnelling microscope to measure the transmission and reflection
probabilities of topological surface states of antimony through naturally
occurring crystalline steps separating atomic terraces. In contrast to
non-topological surface states of common metals (copper, silver and gold), which 
are either reflected or absorbed by atomic steps, we show that topological
surface states of antimony penetrate such barriers with high probability. This
demonstration of the extended nature of antimony's topological surface states
suggests that such states may be useful for high current transmission even in the
presence of atomic-scale irregularities-an electronic feature sought to
efficiently interconnect nanoscale devices.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09189 
PMID: 20631794 


410. Nature. 2010 Jul 15;466(7304):339-42. doi: 10.1038/nature09174.

A hot compact dust disk around a massive young stellar object.

Kraus S(1), Hofmann KH, Menten KM, Schertl D, Weigelt G, Wyrowski F, Meilland A, 
Perraut K, Petrov R, Robbe-Dubois S, Schilke P, Testi L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy, University of Michigan, 500 Church Street, Ann Arbor,
Michigan 48103, USA. stefankr@umich.edu

Circumstellar disks are an essential ingredient of the formation of low-mass
stars. It is unclear, however, whether the accretion-disk paradigm can also
account for the formation of stars more massive than about 10 solar masses, in
which strong radiation pressure might halt mass infall. Massive stars may form by
stellar merging, although more recent theoretical investigations suggest that the
radiative-pressure limit may be overcome by considering more complex,
non-spherical infall geometries. Clear observational evidence, such as the
detection of compact dusty disks around massive young stellar objects, is needed 
to identify unambiguously the formation mode of the most massive stars. Here we
report near-infrared interferometric observations that spatially resolve the
astronomical-unit-scale distribution of hot material around a high-mass (
approximately 20 solar masses) young stellar object. The image shows an elongated
structure with a size of approximately 13 x 19 astronomical units, consistent
with a disk seen at an inclination angle of approximately 45 degrees . Using
geometric and detailed physical models, we found a radial temperature gradient in
the disk, with a dust-free region less than 9.5 astronomical units from the star,
qualitatively and quantitatively similar to the disks observed in low-mass star
formation. Perpendicular to the disk plane we observed a molecular outflow and
two bow shocks, indicating that a bipolar outflow emanates from the inner regions
of the system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09174 
PMID: 20631793 


411. Nature. 2010 Jul 15;466(7304):334-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09199.

Viruses in the faecal microbiota of monozygotic twins and their mothers.

Reyes A(1), Haynes M, Hanson N, Angly FE, Heath AC, Rohwer F, Gordon JI.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Genome Sciences and Systems Biology, Washington University School
of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.

Viral diversity and life cycles are poorly understood in the human gut and other 
body habitats. Phages and their encoded functions may provide informative
signatures of a human microbiota and of microbial community responses to various 
disturbances, and may indicate whether community health or dysfunction is
manifest after apparent recovery from a disease or therapeutic intervention. Here
we report sequencing of the viromes (metagenomes) of virus-like particles
isolated from faecal samples collected from healthy adult female monozygotic
twins and their mothers at three time points over a one-year period. We compared 
these data sets with data sets of sequenced bacterial 16S ribosomal RNA genes and
total-faecal-community DNA. Co-twins and their mothers share a significantly
greater degree of similarity in their faecal bacterial communities than do
unrelated individuals. In contrast, viromes are unique to individuals regardless 
of their degree of genetic relatedness. Despite remarkable interpersonal
variations in viromes and their encoded functions, intrapersonal diversity is
very low, with >95% of virotypes retained over the period surveyed, and with
viromes dominated by a few temperate phages that exhibit remarkable genetic
stability. These results indicate that a predatory viral-microbial dynamic,
manifest in a number of other characterized environmental ecosystems, is notably 
absent in the very distal intestine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09199 
PMCID: PMC2919852
PMID: 20631792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Nature. 2010 Jul 15;466(7304):329-33. doi: 10.1038/nature09206.

Ribosome dynamics and tRNA movement by time-resolved electron cryomicroscopy.

Fischer N(1), Konevega AL, Wintermeyer W, Rodnina MV, Stark H.

Author information: 
(1)3D Electron Cryomicroscopy Group, Max Planck Institute for Biophysical
Chemistry, Am Fassberg 11, 37077 Göttingen, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 15;466(7304):325-6.

The translocation step of protein synthesis entails large-scale rearrangements of
the ribosome-transfer RNA (tRNA) complex. Here we have followed tRNA movement
through the ribosome during translocation by time-resolved single-particle
electron cryomicroscopy (cryo-EM). Unbiased computational sorting of cryo-EM
images yielded 50 distinct three-dimensional reconstructions, showing the tRNAs
in classical, hybrid and various novel intermediate states that provide
trajectories and kinetic information about tRNA movement through the ribosome.
The structures indicate how tRNA movement is coupled with global and local
conformational changes of the ribosome, in particular of the head and body of the
small ribosomal subunit, and show that dynamic interactions between tRNAs and
ribosomal residues confine the path of the tRNAs through the ribosome. The
temperature dependence of ribosome dynamics reveals a surprisingly flat energy
landscape of conformational variations at physiological temperature. The ribosome
functions as a Brownian machine that couples spontaneous conformational changes
driven by thermal energy to directed movement.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09206 
PMID: 20631791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Nature. 2010 Jul 15;466(7304):365-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09180. Epub 2010 Jun 30.

Replacing underperforming protected areas achieves better conservation outcomes.

Fuller RA(1), McDonald-Madden E, Wilson KA, Carwardine J, Grantham HS, Watson JE,
Klein CJ, Green DC, Possingham HP.

Author information: 
(1)The Ecology Centre, University of Queensland, St Lucia, Queensland 4072,
Australia. r.a.fuller@dunelm.org.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 15;466(7304):322-3.

Protected areas vary enormously in their contribution to conserving biodiversity,
and the inefficiency of protected area systems is widely acknowledged. However,
conservation plans focus overwhelmingly on adding new sites to current protected 
area estates. Here we show that the conservation performance of a protected area 
system can be radically improved, without extra expenditure, by replacing a small
number of protected areas with new ones that achieve more for conservation.
Replacing the least cost-effective 1% of Australia's 6,990 strictly protected
areas could increase the number of vegetation types that have 15% or more of
their original extent protected from 18 to 54, of a maximum possible of 58.
Moreover, it increases markedly the area that can be protected, with no increase 
in overall spending. This new paradigm for protected area system expansion could 
yield huge improvements to global conservation at a time when competition for
land is increasingly intense.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09180 
PMID: 20592729  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Nature. 2010 Jul 15;466(7304):373-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09179. Epub 2010 Jun 23.

Blindsight depends on the lateral geniculate nucleus.

Schmid MC(1), Mrowka SW, Turchi J, Saunders RC, Wilke M, Peters AJ, Ye FQ,
Leopold DA.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neuropsychology, National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), 49 
Convent Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA. schmidmicha@gmail.com

Injury to the primary visual cortex (V1) leads to the loss of visual experience. 
Nonetheless, careful testing shows that certain visually guided behaviours can
persist even in the absence of visual awareness. The neural circuits supporting
this phenomenon, which is often termed blindsight, remain uncertain. Here we
demonstrate that the thalamic lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) has a causal role 
in V1-independent processing of visual information. By comparing functional
magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and behavioural measures with and without
temporary LGN inactivation, we assessed the contribution of the LGN to visual
functions of macaque monkeys (Macaca mulatta) with chronic V1 lesions. Before LGN
inactivation, high-contrast stimuli presented to the lesion-affected visual field
(scotoma) produced significant V1-independent fMRI activation in the extrastriate
cortical areas V2, V3, V4, V5/middle temporal (MT), fundus of the superior
temporal sulcus (FST) and lateral intraparietal area (LIP) and the animals
correctly located the stimuli in a detection task. However, following reversible 
inactivation of the LGN in the V1-lesioned hemisphere, fMRI responses and
behavioural detection were abolished. These results demonstrate that direct LGN
projections to the extrastriate cortex have a critical functional contribution to
blindsight. They suggest a viable pathway to mediate fast detection during normal
vision.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09179 
PMCID: PMC2904843
PMID: 20574422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Nature. 2010 Jul 15;466(7304):393-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09252. Epub 2010 Jun 23.

Structure of the gating ring from the human large-conductance Ca(2+)-gated K(+)
channel.

Wu Y(1), Yang Y, Ye S, Jiang Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
Dallas, Texas 75390-9040, USA.

Large-conductance Ca(2+)-gated K(+) (BK) channels are essential for many
biological processes such as smooth muscle contraction and neurotransmitter
release. This group of channels can be activated synergistically by both voltage 
and intracellular Ca(2+), with the large carboxy-terminal intracellular portion
being responsible for Ca(2+) sensing. Here we present the crystal structure of
the entire cytoplasmic region of the human BK channel in a Ca(2+)-free state. The
structure reveals four intracellular subunits, each comprising two tandem RCK
domains, assembled into a gating ring similar to that seen in the MthK channel
and probably representing its physiological assembly. Three Ca(2+) binding sites 
including the Ca(2+) bowl are mapped onto the structure based on mutagenesis
data. The Ca(2+) bowl, located within the second RCK domain, forms an
EF-hand-like motif and is strategically positioned close to the assembly
interface between two subunits. The other two Ca(2+) (or Mg(2+)) binding sites,
Asp 367 and Glu 374/Glu 399, are located on the first RCK domain. The Asp 367
site has high Ca(2+) sensitivity and is positioned in the groove between the
amino- and carboxy-terminal subdomains of RCK1, whereas the low-affinity
Mg(2+)-binding Glu 374/Glu 399 site is positioned on the upper plateau of the
gating ring and close to the membrane. Our structure also contains the linker
connecting the transmembrane and intracellular domains, allowing us to dock a
voltage-gated K(+) channel pore of known structure onto the gating ring with
reasonable accuracy and generate a structural model for the full BK channel.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09252 
PMCID: PMC2910425
PMID: 20574420  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Nature. 2010 Jul 15;466(7304):378-82. doi: 10.1038/nature09129. Epub 2010 Jun 20.

Planar cell polarity breaks bilateral symmetry by controlling ciliary
positioning.

Song H(1), Hu J, Chen W, Elliott G, Andre P, Gao B, Yang Y.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Genetics Section, Genetic Disease Research Branch, National
Human Genome Research Institute, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Defining the three body axes is a central event of vertebrate morphogenesis.
Establishment of left-right (L-R) asymmetry in development follows the
determination of dorsal-ventral and anterior-posterior (A-P) body axes, although 
the molecular mechanism underlying precise L-R symmetry breaking in reference to 
the other two axes is still poorly understood. Here, by removing both Vangl1 and 
Vangl2, the two mouse homologues of a Drosophila core planar cell polarity (PCP) 
gene Van Gogh (Vang), we reveal a previously unrecognized function of PCP in the 
initial breaking of lateral symmetry. The leftward nodal flow across the
posterior notochord (PNC) has been identified as the earliest event in the de
novo formation of L-R asymmetry. We show that PCP is essential in interpreting
the A-P patterning information and linking it to L-R asymmetry. In the absence of
Vangl1 and Vangl2, cilia are positioned randomly around the centre of the PNC
cells and nodal flow is turbulent, which results in disrupted L-R asymmetry. PCP 
in mouse, unlike what has been implicated in other vertebrate species, is not
required for ciliogenesis, cilium motility, Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signalling or
apical docking of basal bodies in ciliated tracheal epithelial cells. Our data
suggest that PCP acts earlier than the unidirectional nodal flow during bilateral
symmetry breaking in vertebrates and provide insight into the functional
mechanism of PCP in organizing the vertebrate tissues in development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09129 
PMCID: PMC3065171
PMID: 20562861  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Nature. 2010 Jul 15;466(7304):383-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09195. Epub 2010 Jun 16.

Members of the H3K4 trimethylation complex regulate lifespan in a
germline-dependent manner in C. elegans.

Greer EL(1), Maures TJ, Hauswirth AG, Green EM, Leeman DS, Maro GS, Han S, Banko 
MR, Gozani O, Brunet A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Stanford University, 300 Pasteur Drive, Stanford,
California 94305, USA.

The plasticity of ageing suggests that longevity may be controlled epigenetically
by specific alterations in chromatin state. The link between chromatin and ageing
has mostly focused on histone deacetylation by the Sir2 family, but less is known
about the role of other histone modifications in longevity. Histone methylation
has a crucial role in development and in maintaining stem cell pluripotency in
mammals. Regulators of histone methylation have been associated with ageing in
worms and flies, but characterization of their role and mechanism of action has
been limited. Here we identify the ASH-2 trithorax complex, which trimethylates
histone H3 at lysine 4 (H3K4), as a regulator of lifespan in Caenorhabditis
elegans in a directed RNA interference (RNAi) screen in fertile worms.
Deficiencies in members of the ASH-2 complex-ASH-2 itself, WDR-5 and the H3K4
methyltransferase SET-2-extend worm lifespan. Conversely, the H3K4 demethylase
RBR-2 is required for normal lifespan, consistent with the idea that an excess of
H3K4 trimethylation-a mark associated with active chromatin-is detrimental for
longevity. Lifespan extension induced by ASH-2 complex deficiency requires the
presence of an intact adult germline and the continuous production of mature
eggs. ASH-2 and RBR-2 act in the germline, at least in part, to regulate lifespan
and to control a set of genes involved in lifespan determination. These results
indicate that the longevity of the soma is regulated by an H3K4
methyltransferase/demethylase complex acting in the C. elegans germline.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09195 
PMCID: PMC3075006
PMID: 20555324  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Nature. 2010 Jul 15;466(7304):368-72. doi: 10.1038/nature09146. Epub 2010 Jun 9.

Functional impact of global rare copy number variation in autism spectrum
disorders.

Pinto D(1), Pagnamenta AT, Klei L, Anney R, Merico D, Regan R, Conroy J,
Magalhaes TR, Correia C, Abrahams BS, Almeida J, Bacchelli E, Bader GD, Bailey
AJ, Baird G, Battaglia A, Berney T, Bolshakova N, Bölte S, Bolton PF, Bourgeron
T, Brennan S, Brian J, Bryson SE, Carson AR, Casallo G, Casey J, Chung BH,
Cochrane L, Corsello C, Crawford EL, Crossett A, Cytrynbaum C, Dawson G, de Jonge
M, Delorme R, Drmic I, Duketis E, Duque F, Estes A, Farrar P, Fernandez BA,
Folstein SE, Fombonne E, Freitag CM, Gilbert J, Gillberg C, Glessner JT, Goldberg
J, Green A, Green J, Guter SJ, Hakonarson H, Heron EA, Hill M, Holt R, Howe JL,
Hughes G, Hus V, Igliozzi R, Kim C, Klauck SM, Kolevzon A, Korvatska O,
Kustanovich V, Lajonchere CM, Lamb JA, Laskawiec M, Leboyer M, Le Couteur A,
Leventhal BL, Lionel AC, Liu XQ, Lord C, Lotspeich L, Lund SC, Maestrini E,
Mahoney W, Mantoulan C, Marshall CR, McConachie H, McDougle CJ, McGrath J,
McMahon WM, Merikangas A, Migita O, Minshew NJ, Mirza GK, Munson J, Nelson SF,
Noakes C, Noor A, Nygren G, Oliveira G, Papanikolaou K, Parr JR, Parrini B, Paton
T, Pickles A, Pilorge M, Piven J, Ponting CP, Posey DJ, Poustka A, Poustka F,
Prasad A, Ragoussis J, Renshaw K, Rickaby J, Roberts W, Roeder K, Roge B, Rutter 
ML, Bierut LJ, Rice JP, Salt J, Sansom K, Sato D, Segurado R, Sequeira AF, Senman
L, Shah N, Sheffield VC, Soorya L, Sousa I, Stein O, Sykes N, Stoppioni V,
Strawbridge C, Tancredi R, Tansey K, Thiruvahindrapduram B, Thompson AP, Thomson 
S, Tryfon A, Tsiantis J, Van Engeland H, Vincent JB, Volkmar F, Wallace S, Wang
K, Wang Z, Wassink TH, Webber C, Weksberg R, Wing K, Wittemeyer K, Wood S, Wu J, 
Yaspan BL, Zurawiecki D, Zwaigenbaum L, Buxbaum JD, Cantor RM, Cook EH, Coon H,
Cuccaro ML, Devlin B, Ennis S, Gallagher L, Geschwind DH, Gill M, Haines JL,
Hallmayer J, Miller J, Monaco AP, Nurnberger JI Jr, Paterson AD, Pericak-Vance
MA, Schellenberg GD, Szatmari P, Vicente AM, Vieland VJ, Wijsman EM, Scherer SW, 
Sutcliffe JS, Betancur C.

Author information: 
(1)The Centre for Applied Genomics and Program in Genetics and Genomic Biology,
The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1L7, Canada.

The autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are a group of conditions characterized by
impairments in reciprocal social interaction and communication, and the presence 
of restricted and repetitive behaviours. Individuals with an ASD vary greatly in 
cognitive development, which can range from above average to intellectual
disability. Although ASDs are known to be highly heritable ( approximately 90%), 
the underlying genetic determinants are still largely unknown. Here we analysed
the genome-wide characteristics of rare (<1% frequency) copy number variation in 
ASD using dense genotyping arrays. When comparing 996 ASD individuals of European
ancestry to 1,287 matched controls, cases were found to carry a higher global
burden of rare, genic copy number variants (CNVs) (1.19 fold, P = 0.012),
especially so for loci previously implicated in either ASD and/or intellectual
disability (1.69 fold, P = 3.4 x 10(-4)). Among the CNVs there were numerous de
novo and inherited events, sometimes in combination in a given family,
implicating many novel ASD genes such as SHANK2, SYNGAP1, DLGAP2 and the X-linked
DDX53-PTCHD1 locus. We also discovered an enrichment of CNVs disrupting
functional gene sets involved in cellular proliferation, projection and motility,
and GTPase/Ras signalling. Our results reveal many new genetic and functional
targets in ASD that may lead to final connected pathways.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09146 
PMCID: PMC3021798
PMID: 20531469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Nature. 2010 Jul 15;466(7304):388-92. doi: 10.1038/nature09147. Epub 2010 May 30.

Relationship between nucleosome positioning and DNA methylation.

Chodavarapu RK(1), Feng S, Bernatavichute YV, Chen PY, Stroud H, Yu Y, Hetzel JA,
Kuo F, Kim J, Cokus SJ, Casero D, Bernal M, Huijser P, Clark AT, Krämer U,
Merchant SS, Zhang X, Jacobsen SE, Pellegrini M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cell, and Developmental Biology, University of
California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.

Nucleosomes compact and regulate access to DNA in the nucleus, and are composed
of approximately 147 bases of DNA wrapped around a histone octamer. Here we
report a genome-wide nucleosome positioning analysis of Arabidopsis thaliana
using massively parallel sequencing of mononucleosomes. By combining this data
with profiles of DNA methylation at single base resolution, we identified 10-base
periodicities in the DNA methylation status of nucleosome-bound DNA and found
that nucleosomal DNA was more highly methylated than flanking DNA. These results 
indicate that nucleosome positioning influences DNA methylation patterning
throughout the genome and that DNA methyltransferases preferentially target
nucleosome-bound DNA. We also observed similar trends in human nucleosomal DNA,
indicating that the relationships between nucleosomes and DNA methyltransferases 
are conserved. Finally, as has been observed in animals, nucleosomes were highly 
enriched on exons, and preferentially positioned at intron-exon and exon-intron
boundaries. RNA polymerase II (Pol II) was also enriched on exons relative to
introns, consistent with the hypothesis that nucleosome positioning regulates Pol
II processivity. DNA methylation is also enriched on exons, consistent with the
targeting of DNA methylation to nucleosomes, and suggesting a role for DNA
methylation in exon definition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09147 
PMCID: PMC2964354
PMID: 20512117  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):272-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09136.

Structural basis for the coupling between activation and inactivation gates in
K(+) channels.

Cuello LG(1), Jogini V, Cortes DM, Pan AC, Gagnon DG, Dalmas O, Cordero-Morales
JF, Chakrapani S, Roux B, Perozo E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The University of Chicago,
929 E 57th Street, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

The coupled interplay between activation and inactivation gating is a functional 
hallmark of K(+) channels. This coupling has been experimentally demonstrated
through ion interaction effects and cysteine accessibility, and is associated
with a well defined boundary of energetically coupled residues. The structure of 
the K(+) channel KcsA in its fully open conformation, in addition to four other
partial channel openings, richly illustrates the structural basis of
activation-inactivation gating. Here, we identify the mechanistic principles by
which movements on the inner bundle gate trigger conformational changes at the
selectivity filter, leading to the non-conductive C-type inactivated state.
Analysis of a series of KcsA open structures suggests that, as a consequence of
the hinge-bending and rotation of the TM2 helix, the aromatic ring of Phe 103
tilts towards residues Thr 74 and Thr 75 in the pore-helix and towards Ile 100 in
the neighbouring subunit. This allows the network of hydrogen bonds among
residues Trp 67, Glu 71 and Asp 80 to destabilize the selectivity filter,
allowing entry to its non-conductive conformation. Mutations at position 103 have
a size-dependent effect on gating kinetics: small side-chain substitutions F103A 
and F103C severely impair inactivation kinetics, whereas larger side chains such 
as F103W have more subtle effects. This suggests that the allosteric coupling
between the inner helical bundle and the selectivity filter might rely on
straightforward mechanical deformation propagated through a network of steric
contacts. Average interactions calculated from molecular dynamics simulations
show favourable open-state interaction-energies between Phe 103 and the
surrounding residues. We probed similar interactions in the Shaker K(+) channel
where inactivation was impaired in the mutant I470A. We propose that side-chain
rearrangements at position 103 mechanically couple activation and inactivation in
KcsA and a variety of other K(+) channels.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09136 
PMCID: PMC3033755
PMID: 20613845  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


421. Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):263-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09198.

Measuring mechanical tension across vinculin reveals regulation of focal adhesion
dynamics.

Grashoff C(1), Hoffman BD, Brenner MD, Zhou R, Parsons M, Yang MT, McLean MA,
Sligar SG, Chen CS, Ha T, Schwartz MA.

Author information: 
(1)Robert M. Berne Cardiovascular Research Center, University of Virginia,
Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):192-3.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2010 Oct;11(10):680-1.
    Nature. 2017 Apr 12;544(7649):255-257.

Mechanical forces are central to developmental, physiological and pathological
processes. However, limited understanding of force transmission within
sub-cellular structures is a major obstacle to unravelling molecular mechanisms. 
Here we describe the development of a calibrated biosensor that measures forces
across specific proteins in cells with piconewton (pN) sensitivity, as
demonstrated by single molecule fluorescence force spectroscopy. The method is
applied to vinculin, a protein that connects integrins to actin filaments and
whose recruitment to focal adhesions (FAs) is force-dependent. We show that
tension across vinculin in stable FAs is approximately 2.5 pN and that vinculin
recruitment to FAs and force transmission across vinculin are regulated
separately. Highest tension across vinculin is associated with adhesion assembly 
and enlargement. Conversely, vinculin is under low force in disassembling or
sliding FAs at the trailing edge of migrating cells. Furthermore, vinculin is
required for stabilizing adhesions under force. Together, these data reveal that 
FA stabilization under force requires both vinculin recruitment and force
transmission, and that, surprisingly, these processes can be controlled
independently.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09198 
PMCID: PMC2901888
PMID: 20613844  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):258-62. doi: 10.1038/nature09139.

Mechanism and regulation of acetylated histone binding by the tandem PHD finger
of DPF3b.

Zeng L(1), Zhang Q, Li S, Plotnikov AN, Walsh MJ, Zhou MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Structural and Chemical Biology, Mount Sinai School of Medicine,
1425 Madison Avenue, Box 1677, New York, New York 10029, USA.

Histone lysine acetylation and methylation have an important role during gene
transcription in a chromatin context. Knowledge concerning the types of protein
modules that can interact with acetyl-lysine has so far been limited to
bromodomains. Recently, a tandem plant homeodomain (PHD) finger (PHD1-PHD2, or
PHD12) of human DPF3b, which functions in association with the BAF chromatin
remodelling complex to initiate gene transcription during heart and muscle
development, was reported to bind histones H3 and H4 in an acetylation-sensitive 
manner, making it the first alternative to bromodomains for acetyl-lysine
binding. Here we report the structural mechanism of acetylated histone binding by
the double PHD fingers of DPF3b. Our three-dimensional solution structures and
biochemical analysis of DPF3b highlight the molecular basis of the integrated
tandem PHD finger, which acts as one functional unit in the sequence-specific
recognition of lysine-14-acetylated histone H3 (H3K14ac). Whereas the interaction
with H3 is promoted by acetylation at lysine 14, it is inhibited by methylation
at lysine 4, and these opposing influences are important during transcriptional
activation of the mouse DPF3b target genes Pitx2 and Jmjd1c. Binding of this
tandem protein module to chromatin can thus be regulated by different histone
modifications during the initiation of gene transcription.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09139 
PMCID: PMC2901902
PMID: 20613843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):253-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09165.

Conserved role of intragenic DNA methylation in regulating alternative promoters.

Maunakea AK(1), Nagarajan RP, Bilenky M, Ballinger TJ, D'Souza C, Fouse SD,
Johnson BE, Hong C, Nielsen C, Zhao Y, Turecki G, Delaney A, Varhol R, Thiessen
N, Shchors K, Heine VM, Rowitch DH, Xing X, Fiore C, Schillebeeckx M, Jones SJ,
Haussler D, Marra MA, Hirst M, Wang T, Costello JF.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Tumor Research Center, Department of Neurosurgery, Helen Diller Family
Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, California 94158, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2010 Sep;11(9):596.

Although it is known that the methylation of DNA in 5' promoters suppresses gene 
expression, the role of DNA methylation in gene bodies is unclear. In mammals,
tissue- and cell type-specific methylation is present in a small percentage of 5'
CpG island (CGI) promoters, whereas a far greater proportion occurs across gene
bodies, coinciding with highly conserved sequences. Tissue-specific intragenic
methylation might reduce, or, paradoxically, enhance transcription elongation
efficiency. Capped analysis of gene expression (CAGE) experiments also indicate
that transcription commonly initiates within and between genes. To investigate
the role of intragenic methylation, we generated a map of DNA methylation from
the human brain encompassing 24.7 million of the 28 million CpG sites. From the
dense, high-resolution coverage of CpG islands, the majority of methylated CpG
islands were shown to be in intragenic and intergenic regions, whereas less than 
3% of CpG islands in 5' promoters were methylated. The CpG islands in all three
locations overlapped with RNA markers of transcription initiation, and
unmethylated CpG islands also overlapped significantly with trimethylation of
H3K4, a histone modification enriched at promoters. The general and
CpG-island-specific patterns of methylation are conserved in mouse tissues. An
in-depth investigation of the human SHANK3 locus and its mouse homologue
demonstrated that this tissue-specific DNA methylation regulates intragenic
promoter activity in vitro and in vivo. These methylation-regulated, alternative 
transcripts are expressed in a tissue- and cell type-specific manner, and are
expressed differentially within a single cell type from distinct brain regions.
These results support a major role for intragenic methylation in regulating cell 
context-specific alternative promoters in gene bodies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09165 
PMCID: PMC3998662
PMID: 20613842  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):248-52. doi: 10.1038/nature09151.

A random cell motility gradient downstream of FGF controls elongation of an
amniote embryo.

Bénazéraf B(1), Francois P, Baker RE, Denans N, Little CD, Pourquié O.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Kansas City, Missouri 64110, USA.

Vertebrate embryos are characterized by an elongated antero-posterior (AP) body
axis, which forms by progressive cell deposition from a posterior growth zone in 
the embryo. Here, we used tissue ablation in the chicken embryo to demonstrate
that the caudal presomitic mesoderm (PSM) has a key role in axis elongation.
Using time-lapse microscopy, we analysed the movements of fluorescently labelled 
cells in the PSM during embryo elongation, which revealed a clear
posterior-to-anterior gradient of cell motility and directionality in the PSM. We
tracked the movement of the PSM extracellular matrix in parallel with the
labelled cells and subtracted the extracellular matrix movement from the global
motion of cells. After subtraction, cell motility remained graded but lacked
directionality, indicating that the posterior cell movements associated with axis
elongation in the PSM are not intrinsic but reflect tissue deformation. The
gradient of cell motion along the PSM parallels the fibroblast growth factor
(FGF)/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) gradient, which has been implicated
in the control of cell motility in this tissue. Both FGF signalling gain- and
loss-of-function experiments lead to disruption of the motility gradient and a
slowing down of axis elongation. Furthermore, embryos treated with cell movement 
inhibitors (blebbistatin or RhoK inhibitor), but not cell cycle inhibitors, show 
a slower axis elongation rate. We propose that the gradient of random cell
motility downstream of FGF signalling in the PSM controls posterior elongation in
the amniote embryo. Our data indicate that tissue elongation is an emergent
property that arises from the collective regulation of graded, random cell motion
rather than by the regulation of directionality of individual cellular movements.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09151 
PMCID: PMC3118990
PMID: 20613841  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):229-33. doi: 10.1038/nature09117.

Early Pleistocene human occupation at the edge of the boreal zone in northwest
Europe.

Parfitt SA(1), Ashton NM, Lewis SG, Abel RL, Coope GR, Field MH, Gale R, Hoare
PG, Larkin NR, Lewis MD, Karloukovski V, Maher BA, Peglar SM, Preece RC,
Whittaker JE, Stringer CB.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Archaeology, University College London, 31-34 Gordon Square,
London WC1H 0PY, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):189-90.

The dispersal of early humans from Africa by 1.75 Myr ago led to a marked
expansion of their range, from the island of Flores in the east to the Iberian
peninsula in the west. This range encompassed tropical forest, savannah and
Mediterranean habitats, but has hitherto not been demonstrated beyond 45 degrees 
N. Until recently, early colonization in Europe was thought to be confined to the
area south of the Pyrenees and Alps. However, evidence from Pakefield (Suffolk,
UK) at approximately 0.7 Myr indicated that humans occupied northern European
latitudes when a Mediterranean-type climate prevailed. This provided the basis
for an 'ebb and flow' model, where human populations were thought to survive in
southern refugia during cold stages, only expanding northwards during fully
temperate climates. Here we present new evidence from Happisburgh (Norfolk, UK)
demonstrating that Early Pleistocene hominins were present in northern Europe
>0.78 Myr ago when they were able to survive at the southern edge of the boreal
zone. This has significant implications for our understanding of early human
behaviour, adaptation and survival, as well as the tempo and mode of colonization
after their first dispersal out of Africa.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09117 
PMID: 20613840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):226-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09213.

Increase in African dust flux at the onset of commercial agriculture in the Sahel
region.

Mulitza S(1), Heslop D, Pittauerova D, Fischer HW, Meyer I, Stuut JB, Zabel M,
Mollenhauer G, Collins JA, Kuhnert H, Schulz M.

Author information: 
(1)MARUM-Center for Marine Environmental Sciences, University of Bremen, Leobener
Strasse, D-28359 Bremen, Germany. smulitza@uni-bremen.de

The Sahara Desert is the largest source of mineral dust in the world. Emissions
of African dust increased sharply in the early 1970s (ref. 2), a change that has 
been attributed mainly to drought in the Sahara/Sahel region caused by changes in
the global distribution of sea surface temperature. The human contribution to
land degradation and dust mobilization in this region remains poorly understood, 
owing to the paucity of data that would allow the identification of long-term
trends in desertification. Direct measurements of airborne African dust
concentrations only became available in the mid-1960s from a station on Barbados 
and subsequently from satellite imagery since the late 1970s: they do not cover
the onset of commercial agriculture in the Sahel region approximately 170 years
ago. Here we construct a 3,200-year record of dust deposition off northwest
Africa by investigating the chemistry and grain-size distribution of terrigenous 
sediments deposited at a marine site located directly under the West African dust
plume. With the help of our dust record and a proxy record for West African
precipitation we find that, on the century scale, dust deposition is related to
precipitation in tropical West Africa until the seventeenth century. At the
beginning of the nineteenth century, a sharp increase in dust deposition
parallels the advent of commercial agriculture in the Sahel region. Our findings 
suggest that human-induced dust emissions from the Sahel region have contributed 
to the atmospheric dust load for about 200 years.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09213 
PMID: 20613839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):217-20. doi: 10.1038/nature09148.

Ultrabright source of entangled photon pairs.

Dousse A(1), Suffczyński J, Beveratos A, Krebs O, Lemaître A, Sagnes I, Bloch J, 
Voisin P, Senellart P.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Photonique et de Nanostructures, CNRS, route de Nozay, 91460
Marcoussis, France.

A source of triggered entangled photon pairs is a key component in quantum
information science; it is needed to implement functions such as linear quantum
computation, entanglement swapping and quantum teleportation. Generation of
polarization entangled photon pairs can be obtained through parametric conversion
in nonlinear optical media or by making use of the radiative decay of two
electron-hole pairs trapped in a semiconductor quantum dot. Today, these sources 
operate at a very low rate, below 0.01 photon pairs per excitation pulse, which
strongly limits their applications. For systems based on parametric conversion,
this low rate is intrinsically due to the Poissonian statistics of the source.
Conversely, a quantum dot can emit a single pair of entangled photons with a
probability near unity but suffers from a naturally very low extraction
efficiency. Here we show that this drawback can be overcome by coupling an
optical cavity in the form of a 'photonic molecule' to a single quantum dot. Two 
coupled identical pillars-the photonic molecule-were etched in a semiconductor
planar microcavity, using an optical lithography method that ensures a
deterministic coupling to the biexciton and exciton energy states of a
pre-selected quantum dot. The Purcell effect ensures that most entangled photon
pairs are emitted into two cavity modes, while improving the indistinguishability
of the two optical recombination paths. A polarization entangled photon pair rate
of 0.12 per excitation pulse (with a concurrence of 0.34) is collected in the
first lens. Our results open the way towards the fabrication of solid state
triggered sources of entangled photon pairs, with an overall (creation and
collection) efficiency of 80%.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09148 
PMID: 20613838 


428. Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):213-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09250.

The size of the proton.

Pohl R(1), Antognini A, Nez F, Amaro FD, Biraben F, Cardoso JM, Covita DS, Dax A,
Dhawan S, Fernandes LM, Giesen A, Graf T, Hänsch TW, Indelicato P, Julien L, Kao 
CY, Knowles P, Le Bigot EO, Liu YW, Lopes JA, Ludhova L, Monteiro CM, Mulhauser
F, Nebel T, Rabinowitz P, Dos Santos JM, Schaller LA, Schuhmann K, Schwob C,
Taqqu D, Veloso JF, Kottmann F.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Quantenoptik, 85748 Garching, Germany.
randolf.pohl@mpq.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):195-6.

The proton is the primary building block of the visible Universe, but many of its
properties-such as its charge radius and its anomalous magnetic moment-are not
well understood. The root-mean-square charge radius, r(p), has been determined
with an accuracy of 2 per cent (at best) by electron-proton scattering
experiments. The present most accurate value of r(p) (with an uncertainty of 1
per cent) is given by the CODATA compilation of physical constants. This value is
based mainly on precision spectroscopy of atomic hydrogen and calculations of
bound-state quantum electrodynamics (QED; refs 8, 9). The accuracy of r(p) as
deduced from electron-proton scattering limits the testing of bound-state QED in 
atomic hydrogen as well as the determination of the Rydberg constant (currently
the most accurately measured fundamental physical constant). An attractive means 
to improve the accuracy in the measurement of r(p) is provided by muonic hydrogen
(a proton orbited by a negative muon); its much smaller Bohr radius compared to
ordinary atomic hydrogen causes enhancement of effects related to the finite size
of the proton. In particular, the Lamb shift (the energy difference between the
2S(1/2) and 2P(1/2) states) is affected by as much as 2 per cent. Here we use
pulsed laser spectroscopy to measure a muonic Lamb shift of 49,881.88(76) GHz. On
the basis of present calculations of fine and hyperfine splittings and QED terms,
we find r(p) = 0.84184(67) fm, which differs by 5.0 standard deviations from the 
CODATA value of 0.8768(69) fm. Our result implies that either the Rydberg
constant has to be shifted by -110 kHz/c (4.9 standard deviations), or the
calculations of the QED effects in atomic hydrogen or muonic hydrogen atoms are
insufficient.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09250 
PMID: 20613837 


429. Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):209-12. doi: 10.1038/nature09168.

A 300-parsec-long jet-inflated bubble around a powerful microquasar in the galaxy
NGC 7793.

Pakull MW(1), Soria R, Motch C.

Author information: 
(1)University of Strasbourg, CNRS UMR 7550, Observatoire Astronomique, 11 rue de 
l'Université, F67000 Strasbourg, France. manfred.pakull@astro.unistra.fr

Black-hole accretion states near or above the Eddington luminosity (the point at 
which radiation force outwards overcomes gravity) are still poorly known because 
of the rarity of such sources. Ultraluminous X-ray sources are the most luminous 
class of black hole (L(X) approximately 10(40) erg s(-1)) located outside the
nuclei of active galaxies. They are likely to be accreting at super-Eddington
rates, if they are powered by black holes with masses less than 100 solar masses.
They are often associated with shock-ionized nebulae, though with no evidence of 
collimated jets. Microquasars with steady jets are much less luminous. Here we
report that the large nebula S26 (ref. 4) in the nearby galaxy NGC 7793 is
powered by a black hole with a pair of collimated jets. It is similar to the
famous Galactic source SS433 (ref. 5), but twice as large and a few times more
powerful. We determine a mechanical power of around a few 10(40) erg s(-1). The
jets therefore seem 10(4) times more energetic than the X-ray emission from the
core. S26 has the structure of a Fanaroff-Riley type II (FRII-type) active
galaxy: X-ray and optical core, X-ray hot spots, radio lobes and an optical and
X-ray cocoon. It is a microquasar where most of the jet power is dissipated in
thermal particles in the lobes rather than relativistic electrons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09168 
PMID: 20613836 


430. Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):203-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09153.

Structural mechanism of C-type inactivation in K(+) channels.

Cuello LG(1), Jogini V, Cortes DM, Perozo E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, and Institute for
Biophysical Dynamics, University of Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

Interconversion between conductive and non-conductive forms of the K(+) channel
selectivity filter underlies a variety of gating events, from flicker transitions
(at the microsecond timescale) to C-type inactivation (millisecond to second
timescale). Here we report the crystal structure of the Streptomyces lividans
K(+) channel KcsA in its open-inactivated conformation and investigate the
mechanism of C-type inactivation gating at the selectivity filter from channels
'trapped' in a series of partially open conformations. Five conformer classes
were identified with openings ranging from 12 A in closed KcsA (Calpha-Calpha
distances at Thr 112) to 32 A when fully open. They revealed a remarkable
correlation between the degree of gate opening and the conformation and ion
occupancy of the selectivity filter. We show that a gradual filter backbone
reorientation leads first to a loss of the S2 ion binding site and a subsequent
loss of the S3 binding site, presumably abrogating ion conduction. These
structures indicate a molecular basis for C-type inactivation in K(+) channels.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09153 
PMCID: PMC3033749
PMID: 20613835  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):197-202. doi: 10.1038/nature09202.

Striatal microRNA controls cocaine intake through CREB signalling.

Hollander JA(1), Im HI, Amelio AL, Kocerha J, Bali P, Lu Q, Willoughby D,
Wahlestedt C, Conkright MD, Kenny PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Behavioral and Molecular Neuroscience, Department of Molecular
Therapeutics, The Scripps Research Institute, Scripps Florida, Jupiter, Florida
33458, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):194-5.

Cocaine addiction is characterized by a gradual loss of control over drug use,
but the molecular mechanisms regulating vulnerability to this process remain
unclear. Here we report that microRNA-212 (miR-212) is upregulated in the dorsal 
striatum of rats with a history of extended access to cocaine. Striatal miR-212
decreases responsiveness to the motivational properties of cocaine by markedly
amplifying the stimulatory effects of the drug on cAMP response element binding
protein (CREB) signalling. This action occurs through miR-212-enhanced Raf1
activity, resulting in adenylyl cyclase sensitization and increased expression of
the essential CREB co-activator TORC (transducer of regulated CREB; also known as
CRTC). Our findings indicate that striatal miR-212 signalling has a key role in
determining vulnerability to cocaine addiction, reveal new molecular regulators
that control the complex actions of cocaine in brain reward circuitries and
provide an entirely new direction for the development of anti-addiction
therapeutics based on the modulation of noncoding RNAs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09202 
PMCID: PMC2916751
PMID: 20613834  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):267-71. doi: 10.1038/nature09145. Epub 2010 Jun 27.

Single-cell NF-kappaB dynamics reveal digital activation and analogue information
processing.

Tay S(1), Hughey JJ, Lee TK, Lipniacki T, Quake SR, Covert MW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305,
USA.

Cells operate in dynamic environments using extraordinary communication
capabilities that emerge from the interactions of genetic circuitry. The
mammalian immune response is a striking example of the coordination of different 
cell types. Cell-to-cell communication is primarily mediated by signalling
molecules that form spatiotemporal concentration gradients, requiring cells to
respond to a wide range of signal intensities. Here we use high-throughput
microfluidic cell culture and fluorescence microscopy, quantitative gene
expression analysis and mathematical modelling to investigate how single
mammalian cells respond to different concentrations of the signalling molecule
tumour-necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, and relay information to the gene expression 
programs by means of the transcription factor nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB. We
measured NF-kappaB activity in thousands of live cells under TNF-alpha doses
covering four orders of magnitude. We find, in contrast to population-level
studies with bulk assays, that the activation is heterogeneous and is a digital
process at the single-cell level with fewer cells responding at lower doses.
Cells also encode a subtle set of analogue parameters to modulate the outcome;
these parameters include NF-kappaB peak intensity, response time and number of
oscillations. We developed a stochastic mathematical model that reproduces both
the digital and analogue dynamics as well as most gene expression profiles at all
measured conditions, constituting a broadly applicable model for
TNF-alpha-induced NF-kappaB signalling in various types of cells. These results
highlight the value of high-throughput quantitative measurements with single-cell
resolution in understanding how biological systems operate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09145 
PMCID: PMC3105528
PMID: 20581820  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):234-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09137. Epub 2010 Jun 23.

Loss of fish actinotrichia proteins and the fin-to-limb transition.

Zhang J(1), Wagh P, Guay D, Sanchez-Pulido L, Padhi BK, Korzh V, Andrade-Navarro 
MA, Akimenko MA.

Author information: 
(1)CAREG, Department of Biology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario K1N 6N5,
Canada.

The early development of teleost paired fins is strikingly similar to that of
tetrapod limb buds and is controlled by similar mechanisms. One early
morphological divergence between pectoral fins and limbs is in the fate of the
apical ectodermal ridge (AER), the distal epidermis that rims the bud. Whereas
the AER of tetrapods regresses after specification of the skeletal progenitors,
the AER of teleost fishes forms a fold that elongates. Formation of the fin fold 
is accompanied by the synthesis of two rows of rigid, unmineralized fibrils
called actinotrichia, which keep the fold straight and guide the migration of
mesenchymal cells within the fold. The actinotrichia are made of elastoidin, the 
components of which, apart from collagen, are unknown. Here we show that two
zebrafish proteins, which we name actinodin 1 and 2 (And1 and And2), are
essential structural components of elastoidin. The presence of actinodin
sequences in several teleost fishes and in the elephant shark (Callorhinchus
milii, which occupies a basal phylogenetic position), but not in tetrapods,
suggests that these genes have been lost during tetrapod species evolution.
Double gene knockdown of and1 and and2 in zebrafish embryos results in the
absence of actinotrichia and impaired fin folds. Gene expression profiles in
embryos lacking and1 and and2 function are consistent with pectoral fin
truncation and may offer a potential explanation for the polydactyly observed in 
early tetrapod fossils. We propose that the loss of both actinodins and
actinotrichia during evolution may have led to the loss of lepidotrichia and may 
have contributed to the fin-to-limb transition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09137 
PMID: 20574421  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):243-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09115. Epub 2010 Jun 16.

Functionally defective germline variants of sialic acid acetylesterase in
autoimmunity.

Surolia I(1), Pirnie SP, Chellappa V, Taylor KN, Cariappa A, Moya J, Liu H, Bell 
DW, Driscoll DR, Diederichs S, Haider K, Netravali I, Le S, Elia R, Dow E, Lee A,
Freudenberg J, De Jager PL, Chretien Y, Varki A, MacDonald ME, Gillis T, Behrens 
TW, Bloch D, Collier D, Korzenik J, Podolsky DK, Hafler D, Murali M, Sands B,
Stone JH, Gregersen PK, Pillai S.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Sialic acid acetylesterase (SIAE) is an enzyme that negatively regulates B
lymphocyte antigen receptor signalling and is required for the maintenance of
immunological tolerance in mice. Heterozygous loss-of-function germline rare
variants and a homozygous defective polymorphic variant of SIAE were identified
in 24/923 subjects of European origin with relatively common autoimmune disorders
and in 2/648 controls of European origin. All heterozygous loss-of-function SIAE 
mutations tested were capable of functioning in a dominant negative manner. A
homozygous secretion-defective polymorphic variant of SIAE was catalytically
active, lacked the ability to function in a dominant negative manner, and was
seen in eight autoimmune subjects but in no control subjects. The odds ratio for 
inheriting defective SIAE alleles was 8.6 in all autoimmune subjects, 8.3 in
subjects with rheumatoid arthritis, and 7.9 in subjects with type I diabetes.
Functionally defective SIAE rare and polymorphic variants represent a strong
genetic link to susceptibility in relatively common human autoimmune disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09115 
PMCID: PMC2900412
PMID: 20555325  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):238-42. doi: 10.1038/nature09103. Epub 2010 Jun 9.

The genome-wide structure of the Jewish people.

Behar DM(1), Yunusbayev B, Metspalu M, Metspalu E, Rosset S, Parik J, Rootsi S,
Chaubey G, Kutuev I, Yudkovsky G, Khusnutdinova EK, Balanovsky O, Semino O,
Pereira L, Comas D, Gurwitz D, Bonne-Tamir B, Parfitt T, Hammer MF, Skorecki K,
Villems R.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Medicine Laboratory, Rambam Health Care Campus, Haifa 31096, Israel.
behardm@usernet.com

Contemporary Jews comprise an aggregate of ethno-religious communities whose
worldwide members identify with each other through various shared religious,
historical and cultural traditions. Historical evidence suggests common origins
in the Middle East, followed by migrations leading to the establishment of
communities of Jews in Europe, Africa and Asia, in what is termed the Jewish
Diaspora. This complex demographic history imposes special challenges in
attempting to address the genetic structure of the Jewish people. Although many
genetic studies have shed light on Jewish origins and on diseases prevalent among
Jewish communities, including studies focusing on uniparentally and biparentally 
inherited markers, genome-wide patterns of variation across the vast geographic
span of Jewish Diaspora communities and their respective neighbours have yet to
be addressed. Here we use high-density bead arrays to genotype individuals from
14 Jewish Diaspora communities and compare these patterns of genome-wide
diversity with those from 69 Old World non-Jewish populations, of which 25 have
not previously been reported. These samples were carefully chosen to provide
comprehensive comparisons between Jewish and non-Jewish populations in the
Diaspora, as well as with non-Jewish populations from the Middle East and north
Africa. Principal component and structure-like analyses identify previously
unrecognized genetic substructure within the Middle East. Most Jewish samples
form a remarkably tight subcluster that overlies Druze and Cypriot samples but
not samples from other Levantine populations or paired Diaspora host populations.
In contrast, Ethiopian Jews (Beta Israel) and Indian Jews (Bene Israel and
Cochini) cluster with neighbouring autochthonous populations in Ethiopia and
western India, respectively, despite a clear paternal link between the Bene
Israel and the Levant. These results cast light on the variegated genetic
architecture of the Middle East, and trace the origins of most Jewish Diaspora
communities to the Levant.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09103 
PMID: 20531471  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):221-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09120. Epub 2010 May 19.

Polymorphism control of superconductivity and magnetism in Cs(3)C(60) close to
the Mott transition.

Ganin AY(1), Takabayashi Y, Jeglic P, Arcon D, Potocnik A, Baker PJ, Ohishi Y,
McDonald MT, Tzirakis MD, McLennan A, Darling GR, Takata M, Rosseinsky MJ,
Prassides K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Liverpool, Liverpool L69 7ZD, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 8;466(7303):191-2.

The crystal structure of a solid controls the interactions between the
electronically active units and thus its electronic properties. In the
high-temperature superconducting copper oxides, only one spatial arrangement of
the electronically active Cu(2+) units-a two-dimensional square lattice-is
available to study the competition between the cooperative electronic states of
magnetic order and superconductivity. Crystals of the spherical molecular
C(60)(3-) anion support both superconductivity and magnetism but can consist of
fundamentally distinct three-dimensional arrangements of the anions.
Superconductivity in the A(3)C(60) (A = alkali metal) fullerides has been
exclusively associated with face-centred cubic (f.c.c.) packing of C(60)(3-)
(refs 2, 3), but recently the most expanded (and thus having the highest
superconducting transition temperature, T(c); ref. 4) composition Cs(3)C(60) has 
been isolated as a body-centred cubic (b.c.c.) packing, which supports both
superconductivity and magnetic order. Here we isolate the f.c.c. polymorph of
Cs(3)C(60) to show how the spatial arrangement of the electronically active units
controls the competing superconducting and magnetic electronic ground states.
Unlike all the other f.c.c. A(3)C(60) fullerides, f.c.c. Cs(3)C(60) is not a
superconductor but a magnetic insulator at ambient pressure, and becomes
superconducting under pressure. The magnetic ordering occurs at an order of
magnitude lower temperature in the geometrically frustrated f.c.c. polymorph
(Néel temperature T(N) = 2.2 K) than in the b.c.c.-based packing (T(N) = 46 K).
The different lattice packings of C(60)(3-) change T(c) from 38 K in b.c.c.
Cs(3)C(60) to 35 K in f.c.c. Cs(3)C(60) (the highest found in the f.c.c.
A(3)C(60) family). The existence of two superconducting packings of the same
electronically active unit reveals that T(c) scales universally in a
structure-independent dome-like relationship with proximity to the Mott
metal-insulator transition, which is governed by the role of electron
correlations characteristic of high-temperature superconducting materials other
than fullerides.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09120 
PMID: 20485340 


437. Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):138-42. doi: 10.1038/nature09140.

SCF(Cyclin F) controls centrosome homeostasis and mitotic fidelity through CP110 
degradation.

D'Angiolella V(1), Donato V, Vijayakumar S, Saraf A, Florens L, Washburn MP,
Dynlacht B, Pagano M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, NYU Cancer Institute, New York University School of
Medicine, 522 First Avenue, SRB 1107, New York, New York 10016, USA.

Generally, F-box proteins are the substrate recognition subunits of SCF
(Skp1-Cul1-F-box protein) ubiquitin ligase complexes, which mediate the timely
proteolysis of important eukaryotic regulatory proteins. Mammalian genomes encode
roughly 70 F-box proteins, but only a handful have established functions. The
F-box protein family obtained its name from Cyclin F (also called Fbxo1), in
which the F-box motif (the approximately 40-amino-acid domain required for
binding to Skp1) was first described. Cyclin F, which is encoded by an essential 
gene, also contains a cyclin box domain, but in contrast to most cyclins, it does
not bind or activate any cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs). However, like other
cyclins, Cyclin F oscillates during the cell cycle, with protein levels peaking
in G2. Despite its essential nature and status as the founding member of the
F-box protein family, Cyclin F remains an orphan protein, whose functions are
unknown. Starting from an unbiased screen, we identified CP110, a protein that is
essential for centrosome duplication, as an interactor and substrate of Cyclin F.
Using a mode of substrate binding distinct from other F-box protein-substrate
pairs, CP110 and Cyclin F physically associate on the centrioles during the G2
phase of the cell cycle, and CP110 is ubiquitylated by the SCF(Cyclin F)
ubiquitin ligase complex, leading to its degradation. siRNA-mediated depletion of
Cyclin F in G2 induces centrosomal and mitotic abnormalities, such as multipolar 
spindles and asymmetric, bipolar spindles with lagging chromosomes. These
phenotypes were reverted by co-silencing CP110 and were recapitulated by
expressing a stable mutant of CP110 that cannot bind Cyclin F. Finally,
expression of a stable CP110 mutant in cultured cells also promotes the formation
of micronuclei, a hallmark of chromosome instability. We propose that SCF(Cyclin 
F)-mediated degradation of CP110 is required for the fidelity of mitosis and
genome integrity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09140 
PMCID: PMC2946399
PMID: 20596027  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):133-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09161.

Human melanoma-initiating cells express neural crest nerve growth factor receptor
CD271.

Boiko AD(1), Razorenova OV, van de Rijn M, Swetter SM, Johnson DL, Ly DP, Butler 
PD, Yang GP, Joshua B, Kaplan MJ, Longaker MT, Weissman IL.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Stanford Cancer
Center, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94304-5542, 
USA. aboiko@stanford.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):424.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):40-1.

The question of whether tumorigenic cancer stem cells exist in human melanomas
has arisen in the last few years. Here we show that in melanomas, tumour stem
cells (MTSCs, for melanoma tumour stem cells) can be isolated prospectively as a 
highly enriched CD271(+) MTSC population using a process that maximizes viable
cell transplantation. The tumours sampled in this study were taken from a broad
spectrum of sites and stages. High-viability cells isolated by
fluorescence-activated cell sorting and re-suspended in a matrigel vehicle were
implanted into T-, B- and natural-killer-deficient Rag2(-/-)gammac(-/-) mice. The
CD271(+) subset of cells was the tumour-initiating population in 90% (nine out of
ten) of melanomas tested. Transplantation of isolated CD271(+) melanoma cells
into engrafted human skin or bone in Rag2(-/-)gammac(-/-) mice resulted in
melanoma; however, melanoma did not develop after transplantation of isolated
CD271(-) cells. We also show that in mice, tumours derived from transplanted
human CD271(+) melanoma cells were capable of metastatsis in vivo. CD271(+)
melanoma cells lacked expression of TYR, MART1 and MAGE in 86%, 69% and 68% of
melanoma patients, respectively, which helps to explain why T-cell therapies
directed at these antigens usually result in only temporary tumour shrinkage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09161 
PMCID: PMC2898751
PMID: 20596026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):128-32. doi: 10.1038/nature09143.

Spatiotemporal regulation of cell-cycle genes by SHORTROOT links patterning and
growth.

Sozzani R(1), Cui H, Moreno-Risueno MA, Busch W, Van Norman JM, Vernoux T, Brady 
SM, Dewitte W, Murray JA, Benfey PN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and IGSP Center for Systems Biology, Duke University,
Durham, North Carolina 27708, USA.

The development of multicellular organisms relies on the coordinated control of
cell divisions leading to proper patterning and growth. The molecular mechanisms 
underlying pattern formation, particularly the regulation of formative cell
divisions, remain poorly understood. In Arabidopsis, formative divisions
generating the root ground tissue are controlled by SHORTROOT (SHR) and SCARECROW
(SCR). Here we show, using cell-type-specific transcriptional effects of SHR and 
SCR combined with data from chromatin immunoprecipitation-based microarray
experiments, that SHR regulates the spatiotemporal activation of specific genes
involved in cell division. Coincident with the onset of a specific formative
division, SHR and SCR directly activate a D-type cyclin; furthermore, altering
the expression of this cyclin resulted in formative division defects. Our results
indicate that proper pattern formation is achieved through transcriptional
regulation of specific cell-cycle genes in a cell-type- and
developmental-stage-specific context. Taken together, we provide evidence for a
direct link between developmental regulators, specific components of the
cell-cycle machinery and organ patterning.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09143 
PMCID: PMC2967763
PMID: 20596025  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):123-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09086.

Sensitivity to perturbations in vivo implies high noise and suggests rate coding 
in cortex.

London M(1), Roth A, Beeren L, Häusser M, Latham PE.

Author information: 
(1)Wolfson Institute for Biomedical Research and Department of Neuroscience,
Physiology and Pharmacology, University College London, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT, UK.

It is well known that neural activity exhibits variability, in the sense that
identical sensory stimuli produce different responses, but it has been difficult 
to determine what this variability means. Is it noise, or does it carry important
information-about, for example, the internal state of the organism? Here we
address this issue from the bottom up, by asking whether small perturbations to
activity in cortical networks are amplified. Based on in vivo whole-cell
patch-clamp recordings in rat barrel cortex, we find that a perturbation
consisting of a single extra spike in one neuron produces approximately 28
additional spikes in its postsynaptic targets. We also show, using simultaneous
intra- and extracellular recordings, that a single spike in a neuron produces a
detectable increase in firing rate in the local network. Theoretical analysis
indicates that this amplification leads to intrinsic, stimulus-independent
variations in membrane potential of the order of +/-2.2-4.5 mV-variations that
are pure noise, and so carry no information at all. Therefore, for the brain to
perform reliable computations, it must either use a rate code, or generate very
large, fast depolarizing events, such as those proposed by the theory of synfire 
chains. However, in our in vivo recordings, we found that such events were very
rare. Our findings are thus consistent with the idea that cortex is likely to use
primarily a rate code.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09086 
PMCID: PMC2898896
PMID: 20596024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):118-22. doi: 10.1038/nature09142.

The male mouse pheromone ESP1 enhances female sexual receptive behaviour through 
a specific vomeronasal receptor.

Haga S(1), Hattori T, Sato T, Sato K, Matsuda S, Kobayakawa R, Sakano H,
Yoshihara Y, Kikusui T, Touhara K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Biological Chemistry, Graduate School of Agricultural
and Life Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo 113-8657, Japan.

Various social behaviours in mice are regulated by chemical signals called
pheromones that act through the vomeronasal system. Exocrine gland-secreting
peptide 1 (ESP1) is a 7-kDa peptide that is released into male tear fluids and
stimulates vomeronasal sensory neurons in female mice. Here, we describe the
molecular and neural mechanisms that are involved in the decoding of ESP1 signals
in the vomeronasal system, which leads to behavioural output in female mice. ESP1
is recognized by a specific vomeronasal receptor, V2Rp5, and the ligand-receptor 
interaction results in sex-specific signal transmission to the amygdaloid and
hypothalamic nuclei via the accessory olfactory bulb. Consequently, ESP1 enhances
female sexual receptive behaviour upon male mounting (lordosis), allowing
successful copulation. In V2Rp5-deficient mice, ESP1 induces neither neural
activation nor sexual behaviour. These findings show that ESP1 is a crucial male 
pheromone that regulates female reproductive behaviour through a specific
receptor in the mouse vomeronasal system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09142 
PMID: 20596023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):113-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09114.

Genome-wide association study in alopecia areata implicates both innate and
adaptive immunity.

Petukhova L(1), Duvic M, Hordinsky M, Norris D, Price V, Shimomura Y, Kim H,
Singh P, Lee A, Chen WV, Meyer KC, Paus R, Jahoda CA, Amos CI, Gregersen PK,
Christiano AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.

Alopecia areata (AA) is among the most highly prevalent human autoimmune
diseases, leading to disfiguring hair loss due to the collapse of immune
privilege of the hair follicle and subsequent autoimmune attack. The genetic
basis of AA is largely unknown. We undertook a genome-wide association study
(GWAS) in a sample of 1,054 cases and 3,278 controls and identified 139 single
nucleotide polymorphisms that are significantly associated with AA (P <or= 5 x
10(-7)). Here we show an association with genomic regions containing several
genes controlling the activation and proliferation of regulatory T cells (T(reg) 
cells), cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA4), interleukin
(IL)-2/IL-21, IL-2 receptor A (IL-2RA; CD25) and Eos (also known as Ikaros family
zinc finger 4; IKZF4), as well as the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) region. We
also find association evidence for regions containing genes expressed in the hair
follicle itself (PRDX5 and STX17). A region of strong association resides within 
the ULBP (cytomegalovirus UL16-binding protein) gene cluster on chromosome
6q25.1, encoding activating ligands of the natural killer cell receptor NKG2D
that have not previously been implicated in an autoimmune disease. By probing the
role of ULBP3 in disease pathogenesis, we also show that its expression in
lesional scalp from patients with AA is markedly upregulated in the hair follicle
dermal sheath during active disease. This study provides evidence for the
involvement of both innate and acquired immunity in the pathogenesis of AA. We
have defined the genetic underpinnings of AA, placing it within the context of
shared pathways among autoimmune diseases, and implicating a novel disease
mechanism, the upregulation of ULBP ligands, in triggering autoimmunity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09114 
PMCID: PMC2921172
PMID: 20596022  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):109-12. doi: 10.1038/nature09183.

Organic agriculture promotes evenness and natural pest control.

Crowder DW(1), Northfield TD, Strand MR, Snyder WE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology, Washington State University, Pullman, Washington
99164, USA. dcrowder@wsu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):36-7.

Human activity can degrade ecosystem function by reducing species number
(richness) and by skewing the relative abundance of species (evenness).
Conservation efforts often focus on restoring or maintaining species number,
reflecting the well-known impacts of richness on many ecological processes. In
contrast, the ecological effects of disrupted evenness have received far less
attention, and developing strategies for restoring evenness remains a conceptual 
challenge. In farmlands, agricultural pest-management practices often lead to
altered food web structure and communities dominated by a few common species,
which together contribute to pest outbreaks. Here we show that organic farming
methods mitigate this ecological damage by promoting evenness among natural
enemies. In field enclosures, very even communities of predator and pathogen
biological control agents, typical of organic farms, exerted the strongest pest
control and yielded the largest plants. In contrast, pest densities were high and
plant biomass was low when enemy evenness was disrupted, as is typical under
conventional management. Our results were independent of the numerically dominant
predator or pathogen species, and so resulted from evenness itself. Moreover,
evenness effects among natural enemy groups were independent and complementary.
Our results strengthen the argument that rejuvenation of ecosystem function
requires restoration of species evenness, rather than just richness. Organic
farming potentially offers a means of returning functional evenness to
ecosystems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09183 
PMID: 20596021  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):105-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09067.

The giant bite of a new raptorial sperm whale from the Miocene epoch of Peru.

Lambert O(1), Bianucci G, Post K, de Muizon C, Salas-Gismondi R, Urbina M, Reumer
J.

Author information: 
(1)Département de Paléontologie, Institut Royal des Sciences Naturelles de
Belgique, Brussels 1000, Belgium. olambert@mnhn.fr

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1134.

The modern giant sperm whale Physeter macrocephalus, one of the largest known
predators, preys upon cephalopods at great depths. Lacking a functional upper
dentition, it relies on suction for catching its prey; in contrast, several
smaller Miocene sperm whales (Physeteroidea) have been interpreted as raptorial
(versus suction) feeders, analogous to the modern killer whale Orcinus orca.
Whereas very large physeteroid teeth have been discovered in various Miocene
localities, associated diagnostic cranial remains have not been found so far.
Here we report the discovery of a new giant sperm whale from the Middle Miocene
of Peru (approximately 12-13 million years ago), Leviathan melvillei, described
on the basis of a skull with teeth and mandible. With a 3-m-long head, very large
upper and lower teeth (maximum diameter and length of 12 cm and greater than 36
cm, respectively), robust jaws and a temporal fossa considerably larger than in
Physeter, this stem physeteroid represents one of the largest raptorial predators
and, to our knowledge, the biggest tetrapod bite ever found. The appearance of
gigantic raptorial sperm whales in the fossil record coincides with a phase of
diversification and size-range increase of the baleen-bearing mysticetes in the
Miocene. We propose that Leviathan fed mostly on high-energy content medium-size 
baleen whales. As a top predator, together with the contemporaneous giant shark
Carcharocles megalodon, it probably had a profound impact on the structuring of
Miocene marine communities. The development of a vast supracranial basin in
Leviathan, extending on the rostrum as in Physeter, might indicate the presence
of an enlarged spermaceti organ in the former that is not associated with deep
diving or obligatory suction feeding.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09067 
PMID: 20596020  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):100-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09166.

Large colonial organisms with coordinated growth in oxygenated environments 2.1
Gyr ago.

El Albani A(1), Bengtson S, Canfield DE, Bekker A, Macchiarelli R, Mazurier A,
Hammarlund EU, Boulvais P, Dupuy JJ, Fontaine C, Fürsich FT, Gauthier-Lafaye F,
Janvier P, Javaux E, Ossa FO, Pierson-Wickmann AC, Riboulleau A, Sardini P,
Vachard D, Whitehouse M, Meunier A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire HYDRASA, UMR 6269 CNRS-INSU, Université de Poitiers, 86022
Poitiers, France. abder.albani@univ-poitiers.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):41-2.

The evidence for macroscopic life during the Palaeoproterozoic era (2.5-1.6 Gyr
ago) is controversial. Except for the nearly 2-Gyr-old coil-shaped fossil
Grypania spiralis, which may have been eukaryotic, evidence for morphological and
taxonomic biodiversification of macroorganisms only occurs towards the beginning 
of the Mesoproterozoic era (1.6-1.0 Gyr). Here we report the discovery of
centimetre-sized structures from the 2.1-Gyr-old black shales of the
Palaeoproterozoic Francevillian B Formation in Gabon, which we interpret as
highly organized and spatially discrete populations of colonial organisms. The
structures are up to 12 cm in size and have characteristic shapes, with a simple 
but distinct ground pattern of flexible sheets and, usually, a permeating radial 
fabric. Geochemical analyses suggest that the sediments were deposited under an
oxygenated water column. Carbon and sulphur isotopic data indicate that the
structures were distinct biogenic objects, fossilized by pyritization early in
the formation of the rock. The growth patterns deduced from the fossil
morphologies suggest that the organisms showed cell-to-cell signalling and
coordinated responses, as is commonly associated with multicellular organization.
The Gabon fossils, occurring after the 2.45-2.32-Gyr increase in atmospheric
oxygen concentration, may be seen as ancient representatives of multicellular
life, which expanded so rapidly 1.5 Gyr later, in the Cambrian explosion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09166 
PMID: 20596019  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):96-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09176.

Ecosystem response to elevated CO(2) levels limited by nitrogen-induced plant
species shift.

Langley JA(1), Megonigal JP.

Author information: 
(1)Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, Edgewater, Maryland 21037, USA.

Terrestrial ecosystems gain carbon through photosynthesis and lose it mostly in
the form of carbon dioxide (CO(2)). The extent to which the biosphere can act as 
a buffer against rising atmospheric CO(2) concentration in global climate change 
projections remains uncertain at the present stage. Biogeochemical theory
predicts that soil nitrogen (N) scarcity may limit natural ecosystem response to 
elevated CO(2) concentration, diminishing the CO(2)-fertilization effect on
terrestrial plant productivity in unmanaged ecosystems. Recent models have
incorporated such carbon-nitrogen interactions and suggest that anthropogenic N
sources could help sustain the future CO(2)-fertilization effect. However,
conclusive demonstration that added N enhances plant productivity in response to 
CO(2)-fertilization in natural ecosystems remains elusive. Here we manipulated
atmospheric CO(2) concentration and soil N availability in a herbaceous brackish 
wetland where plant community composition is dominated by a C(3) sedge and C(4)
grasses, and is capable of responding rapidly to environmental change. We found
that N addition enhanced the CO(2)-stimulation of plant productivity in the first
year of a multi-year experiment, indicating N-limitation of the CO(2) response.
But we also found that N addition strongly promotes the encroachment of C(4)
plant species that respond less strongly to elevated CO(2) concentrations.
Overall, we found that the observed shift in the plant community composition
ultimately suppresses the CO(2)-stimulation of plant productivity by the third
and fourth years. Although extensive research has shown that global change
factors such as elevated CO(2) concentrations and N pollution affect plant
species differently and that they may drive plant community changes, we
demonstrate that plant community shifts can act as a feedback effect that alters 
the whole ecosystem response to elevated CO(2) concentrations. Moreover, we
suggest that trade-offs between the abilities of plant taxa to respond positively
to different perturbations may constrain natural ecosystem response to global
change.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09176 
PMID: 20596018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):91-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09150.

Tailoring light-matter-spin interactions in colloidal hetero-nanostructures.

Zhang J(1), Tang Y, Lee K, Ouyang M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Center for Nanophysics and Advanced Materials,
University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742, USA.

The interplay between light and matter is the basis of many fundamental processes
and various applications. Harnessing light-matter interactions in principle
allows operation of solid state devices under new physical principles: for
example, the a.c. optical Stark effect (OSE) has enabled coherent quantum control
schemes of spins in semiconductors, with the potential for realizing quantum
devices based on spin qubits. However, as the dimension of semiconductors is
reduced, light-matter coupling is typically weakened, thus limiting applications 
at the nanoscale. Recent experiments have demonstrated significant enhancement of
nanoscale light-matter interactions, albeit with the need for a high-finesse
cavity, ultimately preventing device down-scaling and integration. Here we report
that a sizable OSE can be achieved at substantial energy detuning in a
cavity-free colloidal metal-semiconductor core-shell hetero-nanostructure, in
which the metal surface plasmon is tuned to resonate spectrally with a
semiconductor exciton transition. We further demonstrate that this resonantly
enhanced OSE exhibits polarization dependence and provides a viable mechanism for
coherent ultrafast spin manipulation within colloidal nanostructures. The
plasmon-exciton resonant nature further enables tailoring of both OSE and spin
manipulation by tuning plasmon resonance intensity and frequency. These results
open a pathway for tailoring light-matter-spin interactions through
plasmon-exciton resonant coupling in a judiciously engineered nanostructure, and 
offer a basis for future applications in quantum information processing at the
nanoscale. More generally, integrated nanostructures with resonantly enhanced
light-matter interactions should serve as a test bed for other emerging fields,
including nano-biophotonics and nano-energy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09150 
PMID: 20596017 


448. Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):86-90. doi: 10.1038/nature09123.

A macroscopic mechanical resonator driven by mesoscopic electrical back-action.

Stettenheim J(1), Thalakulam M, Pan F, Bal M, Ji Z, Xue W, Pfeiffer L, West KW,
Blencowe MP, Rimberg AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire
03755, USA.

Systems with coupled mechanical and optical or electrical degrees of freedom have
fascinating dynamics that, through macroscopic manifestations of quantum
behaviour, provide new insights into the transition between the classical and
quantum worlds. Of particular interest is the back-action of electrons and
photons on mechanical oscillators, which can lead to cooling and amplification of
mechanical motion. Furthermore, feedback, which is naturally associated with
back-action, has been predicted to have significant consequences for the noise of
a detector coupled to a mechanical oscillator. Recently it has also been
demonstrated that such feedback effects lead to strong coupling between
single-electron transport and mechanical motion in carbon nanotube nanomechanical
resonators. Here we present noise measurements which show that the mesoscopic
back-action of electrons tunnelling through a radio-frequency quantum point
contact causes driven vibrations of the host crystal. This effect is a remarkable
macroscopic manifestation of microscopic quantum behaviour, where the motion of a
mechanical oscillator-the host crystal, which consists of on the order of 10(20) 
atoms-is determined by statistical fluctuations of tunnelling electrons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09123 
PMID: 20596016 


449. Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):82-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09122.

An asymmetric explosion as the origin of spectral evolution diversity in type Ia 
supernovae.

Maeda K(1), Benetti S, Stritzinger M, Röpke FK, Folatelli G, Sollerman J,
Taubenberger S, Nomoto K, Leloudas G, Hamuy M, Tanaka M, Mazzali PA, Elias-Rosa
N.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for the Physics and Mathematics of the Universe (IPMU), University
of Tokyo, 5-1-5 Kashiwanoha, Kashiwa, Chiba 277-8583, Japan.
keiichi.maeda@ipmu.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):37-8.

Type Ia supernovae form an observationally uniform class of stellar explosions,
in that more luminous objects have smaller decline-rates. This one-parameter
behaviour allows type Ia supernovae to be calibrated as cosmological 'standard
candles', and led to the discovery of an accelerating Universe. Recent
investigations, however, have revealed that the true nature of type Ia supernovae
is more complicated. Theoretically, it has been suggested that the initial
thermonuclear sparks are ignited at an offset from the centre of the white-dwarf 
progenitor, possibly as a result of convection before the explosion.
Observationally, the diversity seen in the spectral evolution of type Ia
supernovae beyond the luminosity-decline-rate relation is an unresolved issue.
Here we report that the spectral diversity is a consequence of random directions 
from which an asymmetric explosion is viewed. Our findings suggest that the
spectral evolution diversity is no longer a concern when using type Ia supernovae
as cosmological standard candles. Furthermore, this indicates that ignition at an
offset from the centre is a generic feature of type Ia supernovae.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09122 
PMID: 20596015 


450. Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):62-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09130.

Chromatin regulation by Brg1 underlies heart muscle development and disease.

Hang CT(1), Yang J, Han P, Cheng HL, Shang C, Ashley E, Zhou B, Chang CP.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Department of Medicine, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 28;475(7357):532.

Cardiac hypertrophy and failure are characterized by transcriptional
reprogramming of gene expression. Adult cardiomyocytes in mice primarily express 
alpha-myosin heavy chain (alpha-MHC, also known as Myh6), whereas embryonic
cardiomyocytes express beta-MHC (also known as Myh7). Cardiac stress triggers
adult hearts to undergo hypertrophy and a shift from alpha-MHC to fetal beta-MHC 
expression. Here we show that Brg1, a chromatin-remodelling protein, has a
critical role in regulating cardiac growth, differentiation and gene expression. 
In embryos, Brg1 promotes myocyte proliferation by maintaining Bmp10 and
suppressing p57(kip2) expression. It preserves fetal cardiac differentiation by
interacting with histone deacetylase (HDAC) and poly (ADP ribose) polymerase
(PARP) to repress alpha-MHC and activate beta-MHC. In adults, Brg1 (also known as
Smarca4) is turned off in cardiomyocytes. It is reactivated by cardiac stresses
and forms a complex with its embryonic partners, HDAC and PARP, to induce a
pathological alpha-MHC to beta-MHC shift. Preventing Brg1 re-expression decreases
hypertrophy and reverses this MHC switch. BRG1 is activated in certain patients
with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, its level correlating with disease severity and
MHC changes. Our studies show that Brg1 maintains cardiomyocytes in an embryonic 
state, and demonstrate an epigenetic mechanism by which three classes of
chromatin-modifying factors-Brg1, HDAC and PARP-cooperate to control
developmental and pathological gene expression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09130 
PMCID: PMC2898892
PMID: 20596014  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):56-61. doi: 10.1038/nature09177.

Femtosecond electronic response of atoms to ultra-intense X-rays.

Young L(1), Kanter EP, Krässig B, Li Y, March AM, Pratt ST, Santra R, Southworth 
SH, Rohringer N, Dimauro LF, Doumy G, Roedig CA, Berrah N, Fang L, Hoener M,
Bucksbaum PH, Cryan JP, Ghimire S, Glownia JM, Reis DA, Bozek JD, Bostedt C,
Messerschmidt M.

Author information: 
(1)Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Illinois 60439, USA. young@anl.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):35-6.

An era of exploring the interactions of high-intensity, hard X-rays with matter
has begun with the start-up of a hard-X-ray free-electron laser, the Linac
Coherent Light Source (LCLS). Understanding how electrons in matter respond to
ultra-intense X-ray radiation is essential for all applications. Here we reveal
the nature of the electronic response in a free atom to unprecedented
high-intensity, short-wavelength, high-fluence radiation (respectively 10(18) W
cm(-2), 1.5-0.6 nm, approximately 10(5) X-ray photons per A(2)). At this fluence,
the neon target inevitably changes during the course of a single
femtosecond-duration X-ray pulse-by sequentially ejecting electrons-to produce
fully-stripped neon through absorption of six photons. Rapid photoejection of
inner-shell electrons produces 'hollow' atoms and an intensity-induced X-ray
transparency. Such transparency, due to the presence of inner-shell vacancies,
can be induced in all atomic, molecular and condensed matter systems at high
intensity. Quantitative comparison with theory allows us to extract LCLS fluence 
and pulse duration. Our successful modelling of X-ray/atom interactions using a
straightforward rate equation approach augurs favourably for extension to complex
systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09177 
PMID: 20596013 


452. Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):47-55. doi: 10.1038/nature09149.

The polar ocean and glacial cycles in atmospheric CO(2) concentration.

Sigman DM(1), Hain MP, Haug GH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geosciences, Guyot Hall, Princeton University, Princeton, New
Jersey 08544, USA. sigman@princeton.edu

Global climate and the atmospheric partial pressure of carbon dioxide () are
correlated over recent glacial cycles, with lower during ice ages, but the causes
of the changes are unknown. The modern Southern Ocean releases deeply sequestered
CO(2) to the atmosphere. Growing evidence suggests that the Southern Ocean CO(2) 
'leak' was stemmed during ice ages, increasing ocean CO(2) storage. Such a change
would also have made the global ocean more alkaline, driving additional ocean
CO(2) uptake. This explanation for lower ice-age , if correct, has much to teach 
us about the controls on current ocean processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09149 
PMID: 20596012  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):68-76. doi: 10.1038/nature09204. Epub 2010 Jun 20.

Network organization of the human autophagy system.

Behrends C(1), Sowa ME, Gygi SP, Harper JW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, 
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):38-40.

Autophagy, the process by which proteins and organelles are sequestered in
autophagosomal vesicles and delivered to the lysosome/vacuole for degradation,
provides a primary route for turnover of stable and defective cellular proteins. 
Defects in this system are linked with numerous human diseases. Although
conserved protein kinase, lipid kinase and ubiquitin-like protein conjugation
subnetworks controlling autophagosome formation and cargo recruitment have been
defined, our understanding of the global organization of this system is limited. 
Here we report a proteomic analysis of the autophagy interaction network in human
cells under conditions of ongoing (basal) autophagy, revealing a network of 751
interactions among 409 candidate interacting proteins with extensive connectivity
among subnetworks. Many new autophagy interaction network components have roles
in vesicle trafficking, protein or lipid phosphorylation and protein
ubiquitination, and affect autophagosome number or flux when depleted by RNA
interference. The six ATG8 orthologues in humans (MAP1LC3/GABARAP proteins)
interact with a cohort of 67 proteins, with extensive binding partner overlap
between family members, and frequent involvement of a conserved surface on ATG8
proteins known to interact with LC3-interacting regions in partner proteins.
These studies provide a global view of the mammalian autophagy interaction
landscape and a resource for mechanistic analysis of this critical protein
homeostasis pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09204 
PMCID: PMC2901998
PMID: 20562859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Nature. 2010 Jul 1;466(7302):77-81. doi: 10.1038/nature09152. Epub 2010 Jun 20.

Spatial organization of the flow of genetic information in bacteria.

Montero Llopis P(1), Jackson AF, Sliusarenko O, Surovtsev I, Heinritz J, Emonet
T, Jacobs-Wagner C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, Yale University, 
New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2010 Aug;8(8):533.

Eukaryotic cells spatially organize mRNA processes such as translation and mRNA
decay. Much less is clear in bacterial cells where the spatial distribution of
mature mRNA remains ambiguous. Using a sensitive method based on quantitative
fluorescence in situ hybridization, we show here that in Caulobacter crescentus
and Escherichia coli, chromosomally expressed mRNAs largely display limited
dispersion from their site of transcription during their lifetime. We estimate
apparent diffusion coefficients at least two orders of magnitude lower than
expected for freely diffusing mRNA, and provide evidence in C. crescentus that
this mRNA localization restricts ribosomal mobility. Furthermore, C. crescentus
RNase E appears associated with the DNA independently of its mRNA substrates.
Collectively, our findings show that bacteria can spatially organize translation 
and, potentially, mRNA decay by using the chromosome layout as a template. This
chromosome-centric organization has important implications for cellular
physiology and for our understanding of gene expression in bacteria.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09152 
PMCID: PMC2896451
PMID: 20562858  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1093-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09127.

Activation of autophagy during cell death requires the engulfment receptor
Draper.

McPhee CK(1), Logan MA, Freeman MR, Baehrecke EH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Biology, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA.

Autophagy degrades cytoplasmic components that are required for cell survival in 
response to starvation. Autophagy has also been associated with cell death, but
it is unclear how this is distinguished from autophagy during cell survival.
Drosophila salivary glands undergo programmed cell death that requires autophagy 
genes, and engulfment of salivary gland cells by phagocytes does not appear to
occur. Here we show that Draper (Drpr), the Drosophila melanogaster orthologue of
the Caenorhabditis elegans engulfment receptor CED-1, is required for autophagy
during cell death. Null mutations in, and salivary gland-specific knockdown of,
drpr inhibit salivary gland degradation. Knockdown of drpr prevents the induction
of autophagy in dying salivary glands, and expression of the Atg1 autophagy
regulator in drpr mutants suppresses the failure in degradation of salivary
glands. Surprisingly, drpr is required in the same dying salivary gland cells in 
which it regulates autophagy induction, but drpr knockdown does not prevent
starvation-induced autophagy in the fat body, which is associated with survival. 
In addition, components of the conserved engulfment pathway are required for
clearance of dying salivary glands. To our knowledge, this is the first example
of an engulfment factor that is required for self-clearance of cells. Further,
Drpr is the first factor that distinguishes autophagy that is associated with
cell death from autophagy associated with cell survival.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09127 
PMCID: PMC2892814
PMID: 20577216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1089-92. doi: 10.1038/nature09126.

Hormonal control of the shoot stem-cell niche.

Zhao Z(1), Andersen SU, Ljung K, Dolezal K, Miotk A, Schultheiss SJ, Lohmann JU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Stem Cell Biology, University of Heidelberg, D-69120 Heidelberg,
Germany.

The classic phytohormones cytokinin and auxin play essential roles in the
maintenance of stem-cell systems embedded in shoot and root meristems, and
exhibit complex functional interactions. Here we show that the activity of both
hormones directly converges on the promoters of two A-type ARABIDOPSIS RESPONSE
REGULATOR (ARR) genes, ARR7 and ARR15, which are negative regulators of cytokinin
signalling and have important meristematic functions. Whereas ARR7 and ARR15
expression in the shoot apical meristem (SAM) is induced by cytokinin, auxin has 
a negative effect, which is, at least in part, mediated by the AUXIN RESPONSE
FACTOR5/MONOPTEROS (MP) transcription factor. Our results provide a mechanistic
framework for hormonal control of the apical stem-cell niche and demonstrate how 
root and shoot stem-cell systems differ in their response to phytohormones.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09126 
PMID: 20577215  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1084-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09128.

Sphingosine-1-phosphate is a missing cofactor for the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRAF2.

Alvarez SE(1), Harikumar KB, Hait NC, Allegood J, Strub GM, Kim EY, Maceyka M,
Jiang H, Luo C, Kordula T, Milstien S, Spiegel S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology and the Massey Cancer Center,
Virginia Commonwealth University School of Medicine, 1101 E. Marshall Street,
Richmond, Virginia 23298, USA.

Tumour-necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-associated factor 2 (TRAF2) is a key
component in NF-kappaB signalling triggered by TNF-alpha. Genetic evidence
indicates that TRAF2 is necessary for the polyubiquitination of receptor
interacting protein 1 (RIP1) that then serves as a platform for recruitment and
stimulation of IkappaB kinase, leading to activation of the transcription factor 
NF-kappaB. Although TRAF2 is a RING domain ubiquitin ligase, direct evidence that
TRAF2 catalyses the ubiquitination of RIP1 is lacking. TRAF2 binds to sphingosine
kinase 1 (SphK1), one of the isoenzymes that generates the pro-survival lipid
mediator sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) inside cells. Here we show that SphK1 and 
the production of S1P is necessary for lysine-63-linked polyubiquitination of
RIP1, phosphorylation of IkappaB kinase and IkappaBalpha, and IkappaBalpha
degradation, leading to NF-kappaB activation. These responses were mediated by
intracellular S1P independently of its cell surface G-protein-coupled receptors. 
S1P specifically binds to TRAF2 at the amino-terminal RING domain and stimulates 
its E3 ligase activity. S1P, but not dihydro-S1P, markedly increased recombinant 
TRAF2-catalysed lysine-63-linked, but not lysine-48-linked, polyubiquitination of
RIP1 in vitro in the presence of the ubiquitin conjugating enzymes (E2) UbcH13 or
UbcH5a. Our data show that TRAF2 is a novel intracellular target of S1P, and that
S1P is the missing cofactor for TRAF2 E3 ubiquitin ligase activity, indicating a 
new paradigm for the regulation of lysine-63-linked polyubiquitination. These
results also highlight the key role of SphK1 and its product S1P in TNF-alpha
signalling and the canonical NF-kappaB activation pathway important in
inflammatory, antiapoptotic and immune processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09128 
PMCID: PMC2946785
PMID: 20577214  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1079-83. doi: 10.1038/nature09118.

Subcapsular sinus macrophages prevent CNS invasion on peripheral infection with a
neurotropic virus.

Iannacone M(1), Moseman EA, Tonti E, Bosurgi L, Junt T, Henrickson SE, Whelan SP,
Guidotti LG, von Andrian UH.

Author information: 
(1)Immune Disease Institute and Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, 
77 Avenue Louis Pasteur, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
Matteo_Iannacone@hms.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Am J Transplant. 2011 Jun;11(6):1111.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2010 Aug;10(8):538.

Lymph nodes (LNs) capture microorganisms that breach the body's external barriers
and enter draining lymphatics, limiting the systemic spread of pathogens. Recent 
work has shown that CD11b(+)CD169(+) macrophages, which populate the subcapsular 
sinus (SCS) of LNs, are critical for the clearance of viruses from the lymph and 
for initiating antiviral humoral immune responses. Here we show, using vesicular 
stomatitis virus (VSV), a relative of rabies virus transmitted by insect bites,
that SCS macrophages perform a third vital function: they prevent lymph-borne
neurotropic viruses from infecting the central nervous system (CNS). On local
depletion of LN macrophages, about 60% of mice developed ascending paralysis and 
died 7-10 days after subcutaneous infection with a small dose of VSV, whereas
macrophage-sufficient animals remained asymptomatic and cleared the virus. VSV
gained access to the nervous system through peripheral nerves in
macrophage-depleted LNs. In contrast, within macrophage-sufficient LNs VSV
replicated preferentially in SCS macrophages but not in adjacent nerves. Removal 
of SCS macrophages did not compromise adaptive immune responses against VSV, but 
decreased type I interferon (IFN-I) production within infected LNs. VSV-infected 
macrophages recruited IFN-I-producing plasmacytoid dendritic cells to the SCS and
in addition were a major source of IFN-I themselves. Experiments in bone marrow
chimaeric mice revealed that IFN-I must act on both haematopoietic and stromal
compartments, including the intranodal nerves, to prevent lethal infection with
VSV. These results identify SCS macrophages as crucial gatekeepers to the CNS
that prevent fatal viral invasion of the nervous system on peripheral infection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09118 
PMCID: PMC2892812
PMID: 20577213  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1062-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09170.

Nitrate supply from deep to near-surface waters of the North Pacific subtropical 
gyre.

Johnson KS(1), Riser SC, Karl DM.

Author information: 
(1)Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute, Moss Landing, California 95039, USA.
johnson@mbari.org

Concentrations of dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC) decrease in the surface mixed 
layers during spring and summer in most of the oligotrophic ocean. Mass balance
calculations require that the missing DIC is converted into particulate carbon by
photosynthesis. This DIC uptake represents one of the largest components of net
community production in the world ocean. However, mixed-layer waters in these
regions of the ocean typically contain negligible concentrations of plant
nutrients such as nitrate and phosphate. Combined nutrient supply mechanisms
including nitrogen fixation, diffusive transport and vertical entrainment are
believed to be insufficient to supply the required nutrients for photosynthesis. 
The basin-scale potential for episodic nutrient transport by eddy events is
unresolved. As a result, it is not understood how biologically mediated DIC
uptake can be supported in the absence of nutrients. Here we report on
high-resolution measurements of nitrate (NO(3)(-)) and oxygen (O(2))
concentration made over 21 months using a profiling float deployed near the
Hawaii Ocean Time-series station in the North Pacific subtropical gyre. Our
measurements demonstrate that as O(2) was produced and DIC was consumed over two 
annual cycles, a corresponding seasonal deficit in dissolved NO(3)(-) appeared in
water at depths from 100 to 250 m. The deep-water deficit in NO(3)(-) was in
near-stoichiometric balance with the fixed nitrogen exported to depth. Thus, when
the water column from the surface to 250 m is considered as a whole, there is
near equivalence between nutrient supply and demand. Short-lived transport events
(<10 days) that connect deep stocks of nitrate to nutrient-poor surface waters
were clearly present in 12 of the 127 vertical profiles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09170 
PMID: 20577212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1057-61. doi: 10.1038/nature09112.

Coherent control of Rydberg states in silicon.

Greenland PT(1), Lynch SA, van der Meer AF, Murdin BN, Pidgeon CR, Redlich B,
Vinh NQ, Aeppli G.

Author information: 
(1)London Centre for Nanotechnology and Department of Physics and Astronomy,
University College London, London WC1H 0AH, UK. ptg@globalnet.co.uk

Laser cooling and electromagnetic traps have led to a revolution in atomic
physics, yielding dramatic discoveries ranging from Bose-Einstein condensation to
the quantum control of single atoms. Of particular interest, because they can be 
used in the quantum control of one atom by another, are excited Rydberg states,
where wavefunctions are expanded from their ground-state extents of less than 0.1
nm to several nanometres and even beyond; this allows atoms far enough apart to
be non-interacting in their ground states to strongly interact in their excited
states. For eventual application of such states, a solid-state implementation is 
very desirable. Here we demonstrate the coherent control of impurity
wavefunctions in the most ubiquitous donor in a semiconductor, namely
phosphorus-doped silicon. In our experiments, we use a free-electron laser to
stimulate and observe photon echoes, the orbital analogue of the Hahn spin echo, 
and Rabi oscillations familiar from magnetic resonance spectroscopy. As well as
extending atomic physicists' explorations of quantum phenomena to the solid
state, our work adds coherent terahertz radiation, as a particularly precise
regulator of orbitals in solids, to the list of controls, such as pressure and
chemical composition, already familiar to materials scientists.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09112 
PMID: 20577211 


461. Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1052-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09081.

Efficient quantum memory for light.

Hedges MP(1), Longdell JJ, Li Y, Sellars MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laser Physics Centre, Research School of Physics and Engineering, Australian
National University, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory 0200, Australia.
mph111@physics.anu.edu.au

Storing and retrieving a quantum state of light on demand, without corrupting the
information it carries, is an important challenge in the field of quantum
information processing. Classical measurement and reconstruction strategies for
storing light must necessarily destroy quantum information as a consequence of
the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. There has been significant effort directed 
towards the development of devices-so-called quantum memories-capable of avoiding
this penalty. So far, successful demonstrations of non-classical storage and
on-demand recall have used atomic vapours and have been limited to low
efficiencies, of less than 17 per cent, using weak quantum states with an average
photon number of around one. Here we report a low-noise, highly efficient (up to 
69 per cent) quantum memory for light that uses a solid-state medium. The device 
allows the storage and recall of light more faithfully than is possible using a
classical memory, for weak coherent states at the single-photon level through to 
bright states of up to 500 photons. For input coherent states containing on
average 30 photons or fewer, the performance exceeded the no-cloning limit. This 
guaranteed that more information about the inputs was retrieved from the memory
than was left behind or destroyed, a feature that will provide security in
communications applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09081 
PMID: 20577210 


462. Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1049-51. doi: 10.1038/nature09111.

The orbital motion, absolute mass and high-altitude winds of exoplanet HD
209458b.

Snellen IA(1), de Kok RJ, de Mooij EJ, Albrecht S.

Author information: 
(1)Leiden Observatory, Leiden University, Postbus 9513, 2300 RA Leiden, The
Netherlands. snellen@strw.leidenuniv.nl

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1017-8.

For extrasolar planets discovered using the radial velocity method, the spectral 
characterization of the host star leads to a mass estimate of the star and
subsequently of the orbiting planet. If the orbital velocity of the planet could 
be determined, the masses of both star and planet could be calculated using
Newton's law of gravity, just as in the case of stellar double-line eclipsing
binaries. Here we report high-dispersion ground-based spectroscopy of a transit
of the extrasolar planet HD 209458b. We see a significant wavelength shift in
absorption lines from carbon monoxide in the planet's atmosphere, which we
conclude arises from a change in the radial component of the planet's orbital
velocity. The masses of the star and planet are 1.00 +/- 0.22M(Sun) and 0.64 +/- 
0.09M(Jup) respectively. A blueshift of the carbon monoxide signal of
approximately 2 km s(-1) with respect to the systemic velocity of the host star
suggests the presence of a strong wind flowing from the irradiated dayside to the
non-irradiated nightside of the planet within the 0.01-0.1 mbar atmospheric
pressure range probed by these observations. The strength of the carbon monoxide 
signal suggests a carbon monoxide mixing ratio of (1-3) x 10(-3) in this planet's
upper atmosphere.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09111 
PMID: 20577209 


463. Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1044-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09196.

Structure and mechanism of human DNA polymerase eta.

Biertümpfel C(1), Zhao Y, Kondo Y, Ramón-Maiques S, Gregory M, Lee JY, Masutani
C, Lehmann AR, Hanaoka F, Yang W.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, NIDDK, NIH, 9000 Rockville Pike, Building 5, 
Room B103, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 18;476(7360):360.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1023-4.

The variant form of the human syndrome xeroderma pigmentosum (XPV) is caused by a
deficiency in DNA polymerase eta (Poleta), a DNA polymerase that enables
replication through ultraviolet-induced pyrimidine dimers. Here we report
high-resolution crystal structures of human Poleta at four consecutive steps
during DNA synthesis through cis-syn cyclobutane thymine dimers. Poleta acts like
a 'molecular splint' to stabilize damaged DNA in a normal B-form conformation. An
enlarged active site accommodates the thymine dimer with excellent
stereochemistry for two-metal ion catalysis. Two residues conserved among Poleta 
orthologues form specific hydrogen bonds with the lesion and the incoming
nucleotide to assist translesion synthesis. On the basis of the structures, eight
Poleta missense mutations causing XPV can be rationalized as undermining the
molecular splint or perturbing the active-site alignment. The structures also
provide an insight into the role of Poleta in replicating through D loop and DNA 
fragile sites.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09196 
PMCID: PMC2899710
PMID: 20577208  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1039-43. doi: 10.1038/nature09104.

Structural basis for the suppression of skin cancers by DNA polymerase eta.

Silverstein TD(1), Johnson RE, Jain R, Prakash L, Prakash S, Aggarwal AK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Structural and Chemical Biology, Mount Sinai School of Medicine,
Box 1677, 1425 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10029, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1023-4.

DNA polymerase eta (Poleta) is unique among eukaryotic polymerases in its
proficient ability for error-free replication through ultraviolet-induced
cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers, and inactivation of Poleta (also known as POLH) in
humans causes the variant form of xeroderma pigmentosum (XPV). We present the
crystal structures of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Poleta (also known as RAD30) in
ternary complex with a cis-syn thymine-thymine (T-T) dimer and with undamaged
DNA. The structures reveal that the ability of Poleta to replicate efficiently
through the ultraviolet-induced lesion derives from a simple and yet elegant
mechanism, wherein the two Ts of the T-T dimer are accommodated in an active site
cleft that is much more open than in other polymerases. We also show by
structural, biochemical and genetic analysis that the two Ts are maintained in a 
stable configuration in the active site via interactions with Gln 55, Arg 73 and 
Met 74. Together, these features define the basis for Poleta's action on
ultraviolet-damaged DNA that is crucial in suppressing the mutagenic and
carcinogenic consequences of sun exposure, thereby reducing the incidence of skin
cancers in humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09104 
PMCID: PMC3030469
PMID: 20577207  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1033-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09144.

A coding-independent function of gene and pseudogene mRNAs regulates tumour
biology.

Poliseno L(1), Salmena L, Zhang J, Carver B, Haveman WJ, Pandolfi PP.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Genetics Program, Beth Israel Deaconess Cancer Center, Department of
Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1016-7.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2010 Aug;11(8):530-1.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2010 Aug;10(8):535.

The canonical role of messenger RNA (mRNA) is to deliver protein-coding
information to sites of protein synthesis. However, given that microRNAs bind to 
RNAs, we hypothesized that RNAs could possess a regulatory role that relies on
their ability to compete for microRNA binding, independently of their
protein-coding function. As a model for the protein-coding-independent role of
RNAs, we describe the functional relationship between the mRNAs produced by the
PTEN tumour suppressor gene and its pseudogene PTENP1 and the critical
consequences of this interaction. We find that PTENP1 is biologically active as
it can regulate cellular levels of PTEN and exert a growth-suppressive role. We
also show that the PTENP1 locus is selectively lost in human cancer. We extended 
our analysis to other cancer-related genes that possess pseudogenes, such as
oncogenic KRAS. We also demonstrate that the transcripts of protein-coding genes 
such as PTEN are biologically active. These findings attribute a novel biological
role to expressed pseudogenes, as they can regulate coding gene expression, and
reveal a non-coding function for mRNAs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09144 
PMCID: PMC3206313
PMID: 20577206  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1027-32. doi: 10.1038/nature09125.

Umpolung reactivity in amide and peptide synthesis.

Shen B(1), Makley DM, Johnston JN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Vanderbilt Institute of Chemical Biology, Vanderbilt 
University, Nashville, Tennessee 37235-1822, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1020-2.

The amide bond is one of nature's most common functional and structural elements,
as the backbones of all natural peptides and proteins are composed of amide
bonds. Amides are also present in many therapeutic small molecules. The
construction of amide bonds using available methods relies principally on
dehydrative approaches, although oxidative and radical-based methods are
representative alternatives. In nearly every example, carbon and nitrogen bear
electrophilic and nucleophilic character, respectively, during the
carbon-nitrogen bond-forming step. Here we show that activation of amines and
nitroalkanes with an electrophilic iodine source can lead directly to amide
products. Preliminary observations support a mechanism in which the polarities of
the two reactants are reversed (German, umpolung) during carbon-nitrogen bond
formation relative to traditional approaches. The use of nitroalkanes as acyl
anion equivalents provides a conceptually innovative approach to amide and
peptide synthesis, and one that might ultimately provide for efficient peptide
synthesis that is fully reliant on enantioselective methods.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09125 
PMCID: PMC2945247
PMID: 20577205  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):E1; discussion E3. doi: 10.1038/nature09089.

Human adult germline stem cells in question.

Ko K(1), Araúzo-Bravo MJ, Tapia N, Kim J, Lin Q, Bernemann C, Han DW, Gentile L, 
Reinhardt P, Greber B, Schneider RK, Kliesch S, Zenke M, Schöler HR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, Max Planck Institute for
Molecular Biomedicine, Münster 48149, Germany.

Comment on
    Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):344-9.

Conrad et al. have generated human adult germline stem cells (haGSCs) from human 
testicular tissue, which they claim have similar pluripotent properties to human 
embryonic stem cells (hESCs). Here we investigate the pluripotency of haGSCs by
using global gene-expression analysis based on their gene array data and
comparing the expression of pluripotency marker genes in haGSCs and hESCs, and in
haGSCs and human fibroblast samples derived from different laboratories,
including our own. We find that haGSCs and fibroblasts have a similar
gene-expression profile, but that haGSCs and hESCs do not. The pluripotency of
Conrad and colleagues' haGSCs is therefore called into question.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09089 
PMID: 20577160  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1075-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09087. Epub 2010 Jun 13.

Presynaptic activity regulates Na(+) channel distribution at the axon initial
segment.

Kuba H(1), Oichi Y, Ohmori H.

Author information: 
(1)Career-Path Promotion Unit for Young Life Scientists, Kyoto University
Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan. kuba@nbiol.med.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1022-3.

Deprivation of afferent inputs in neural circuits leads to diverse plastic
changes in both pre- and postsynaptic elements that restore neural activity. The 
axon initial segment (AIS) is the site at which neural signals arise, and should 
be the most efficient site to regulate neural activity. However, none of the
plasticity currently known involves the AIS. We report here that deprivation of
auditory input in an avian brainstem auditory neuron leads to an increase in AIS 
length, thus augmenting the excitability of the neuron. The length of the AIS,
defined by the distribution of voltage-gated Na(+) channels and the AIS anchoring
protein, increased by 1.7 times in seven days after auditory input deprivation.
This was accompanied by an increase in the whole-cell Na(+) current, membrane
excitability and spontaneous firing. Our work demonstrates homeostatic regulation
of the AIS, which may contribute to the maintenance of the auditory pathway after
hearing loss. Furthermore, plasticity at the spike initiation site suggests a
powerful pathway for refining neuronal computation in the face of strong sensory 
deprivation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09087 
PMID: 20543825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1097-101. doi: 10.1038/nature09095. Epub 2010 Jun
13.

Small regulatory RNAs inhibit RNA polymerase II during the elongation phase of
transcription.

Guang S(1), Bochner AF, Burkhart KB, Burton N, Pavelec DM, Kennedy S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Genetics, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin 53706,
USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2010 Aug;11(8):539.

Eukaryotic cells express a wide variety of endogenous small regulatory RNAs that 
regulate heterochromatin formation, developmental timing, defence against
parasitic nucleic acids and genome rearrangement. Many small regulatory RNAs are 
thought to function in nuclei. For instance, in plants and fungi, short
interfering RNA (siRNAs) associate with nascent transcripts and direct chromatin 
and/or DNA modifications. To understand further the biological roles of small
regulatory RNAs, we conducted a genetic screen to identify factors required for
RNA interference (RNAi) in Caenorhabditis elegans nuclei. Here we show that the
gene nuclear RNAi defective-2 (nrde-2) encodes an evolutionarily conserved
protein that is required for siRNA-mediated silencing in nuclei. NRDE-2
associates with the Argonaute protein NRDE-3 within nuclei and is recruited by
NRDE-3/siRNA complexes to nascent transcripts that have been targeted by RNAi. We
find that nuclear-localized siRNAs direct an NRDE-2-dependent silencing of
pre-messenger RNAs (pre-mRNAs) 3' to sites of RNAi, an NRDE-2-dependent
accumulation of RNA polymerase (RNAP) II at genomic loci targeted by RNAi, and
NRDE-2-dependent decreases in RNAP II occupancy and RNAP II transcriptional
activity 3' to sites of RNAi. These results define NRDE-2 as a component of the
nuclear RNAi machinery and demonstrate that metazoan siRNAs can silence
nuclear-localized RNAs co-transcriptionally. In addition, these results establish
a novel mode of RNAP II regulation: siRNA-directed recruitment of NRDE factors
that inhibit RNAP II during the elongation phase of transcription.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09095 
PMCID: PMC2892551
PMID: 20543824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1070-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09160. Epub 2010 Jun 13.

Activity-dependent relocation of the axon initial segment fine-tunes neuronal
excitability.

Grubb MS(1), Burrone J.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Centre for Developmental Neurobiology, King's College London, 4th Floor,
New Hunt's House, Guy's Campus, London SE1 1UL, UK. matthew.grubb@kcl.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1022-3.

In neurons, the axon initial segment (AIS) is a specialized region near the start
of the axon that is the site of action potential initiation. The precise location
of the AIS varies across and within different neuronal types, and has been linked
to cells' information-processing capabilities; however, the factors determining
AIS position in individual neurons remain unknown. Here we show that changes in
electrical activity can alter the location of the AIS. In dissociated hippocampal
cultures, chronic depolarization with high extracellular potassium moves multiple
components of the AIS, including voltage-gated sodium channels, up to 17 mum away
from the soma of excitatory neurons. This movement reverses when neurons are
returned to non-depolarized conditions, and depends on the activation of T-
and/or L-type voltage-gated calcium channels. The AIS also moved distally when we
combined long-term LED (light-emitting diode) photostimulation with sparse
neuronal expression of the light-activated cation channel channelrhodopsin-2;
here, burst patterning of activity was successful where regular stimulation at
the same frequency failed. Furthermore, changes in AIS position correlate with
alterations in current thresholds for action potential spiking. Our results show 
that neurons can regulate the position of an entire subcellular structure
according to their ongoing levels and patterns of electrical activity. This novel
form of activity-dependent plasticity may fine-tune neuronal excitability during 
development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09160 
PMCID: PMC3196626
PMID: 20543823  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1066-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09116. Epub 2010 Jun 9.

Environmental context explains Lévy and Brownian movement patterns of marine
predators.

Humphries NE(1), Queiroz N, Dyer JR, Pade NG, Musyl MK, Schaefer KM, Fuller DW,
Brunnschweiler JM, Doyle TK, Houghton JD, Hays GC, Jones CS, Noble LR, Wearmouth 
VJ, Southall EJ, Sims DW.

Author information: 
(1)Marine Biological Association of the United Kingdom, The Laboratory, Citadel
Hill, Plymouth PL1 2PB, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):1018-9.

An optimal search theory, the so-called Lévy-flight foraging hypothesis, predicts
that predators should adopt search strategies known as Lévy flights where prey is
sparse and distributed unpredictably, but that Brownian movement is sufficiently 
efficient for locating abundant prey. Empirical studies have generated
controversy because the accuracy of statistical methods that have been used to
identify Lévy behaviour has recently been questioned. Consequently, whether
foragers exhibit Lévy flights in the wild remains unclear. Crucially, moreover,
it has not been tested whether observed movement patterns across natural
landscapes having different expected resource distributions conform to the
theory's central predictions. Here we use maximum-likelihood methods to test for 
Lévy patterns in relation to environmental gradients in the largest animal
movement data set assembled for this purpose. Strong support was found for Lévy
search patterns across 14 species of open-ocean predatory fish (sharks, tuna,
billfish and ocean sunfish), with some individuals switching between Lévy and
Brownian movement as they traversed different habitat types. We tested the
spatial occurrence of these two principal patterns and found Lévy behaviour to be
associated with less productive waters (sparser prey) and Brownian movements to
be associated with productive shelf or convergence-front habitats (abundant
prey). These results are consistent with the Lévy-flight foraging hypothesis,
supporting the contention that organism search strategies naturally evolved in
such a way that they exploit optimal Lévy patterns.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09116 
PMID: 20531470  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):956-60. doi: 10.1038/nature09080.

TFIIA and the transactivator Rap1 cooperate to commit TFIID for transcription
initiation.

Papai G(1), Tripathi MK, Ruhlmann C, Layer JH, Weil PA, Schultz P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Structural Biology and Genomics, Institut de Génétique et de
Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire (IGBMC), 1 rue Laurent Fries, BP10142, 67404
Illkirch, France.

Transcription of eukaryotic messenger RNA (mRNA) encoding genes by RNA polymerase
II (Pol II) is triggered by the binding of transactivating proteins to enhancer
DNA, which stimulates the recruitment of general transcription factors (TFIIA, B,
D, E, F, H) and Pol II on the cis-linked promoter, leading to pre-initiation
complex formation and transcription. In TFIID-dependent activation pathways, this
general transcription factor containing TATA-box-binding protein is first
recruited on the promoter through interaction with activators and cooperates with
TFIIA to form a committed pre-initiation complex. However, neither the mechanisms
by which activation signals are communicated between these factors nor the
structural organization of the activated pre-initiation complex are known. Here
we used cryo-electron microscopy to determine the architecture of nucleoprotein
complexes composed of TFIID, TFIIA, the transcriptional activator Rap1 and yeast 
enhancer-promoter DNA. These structures revealed the mode of binding of Rap1 and 
TFIIA to TFIID, as well as a reorganization of TFIIA induced by its interaction
with Rap1. We propose that this change in position increases the exposure of
TATA-box-binding protein within TFIID, consequently enhancing its ability to
interact with the promoter. A large Rap1-dependent DNA loop forms between the
activator-binding site and the proximal promoter region. This loop is
topologically locked by a TFIIA-Rap1 protein bridge that folds over the DNA.
These results highlight the role of TFIIA in transcriptional activation, define a
molecular mechanism for enhancer-promoter communication and provide structural
insights into the pathways of intramolecular communication that convey
transcription activation signals through the TFIID complex.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09080 
PMCID: PMC2900199
PMID: 20559389  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):937-41. doi: 10.1038/nature09102.

TLR recognition of self nucleic acids hampers glucocorticoid activity in lupus.

Guiducci C(1), Gong M, Xu Z, Gill M, Chaussabel D, Meeker T, Chan JH, Wright T,
Punaro M, Bolland S, Soumelis V, Banchereau J, Coffman RL, Pascual V, Barrat FJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dynavax Technologies Corporation, 2929 Seventh Street, Suite 100, Berkeley,
California 94710, USA.

Glucocorticoids are widely used to treat patients with autoimmune diseases such
as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). However, regimens used to treat many such 
conditions cannot maintain disease control in the majority of SLE patients and
more aggressive approaches such as high-dose methylprednisolone pulse therapy are
used to provide transient reductions in disease activity. The primary
anti-inflammatory mechanism of glucocorticoids is thought to be NF-kappaB
inhibition. Recognition of self nucleic acids by toll-like receptors TLR7 and
TLR9 on B cells and plasmacytoid dendritic cells (PDCs) is an important step in
the pathogenesis of SLE, promoting anti-nuclear antibodies and the production of 
type I interferon (IFN), both correlated with the severity of disease. Following 
their activation by self-nucleic acid-associated immune complexes, PDCs migrate
to the tissues. We demonstrate, in vitro and in vivo, that stimulation of PDCs
through TLR7 and 9 can account for the reduced activity of glucocorticoids to
inhibit the IFN pathway in SLE patients and in two lupus-prone mouse strains. The
triggering of PDCs through TLR7 and 9 by nucleic acid-containing immune complexes
or by synthetic ligands activates the NF-kappaB pathway essential for PDC
survival. Glucocorticoids do not affect NF-kappaB activation in PDCs, preventing 
glucocorticoid induction of PDC death and the consequent reduction of systemic
IFN-alpha levels. These findings unveil a new role for self nucleic acid
recognition by TLRs and indicate that inhibitors of TLR7 and 9 signalling could
prove to be effective corticosteroid-sparing drugs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09102 
PMCID: PMC2964153
PMID: 20559388  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):932-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09119.

Developmental sensory experience balances cortical excitation and inhibition.

Dorrn AL(1), Yuan K, Barker AJ, Schreiner CE, Froemke RC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Max-Delbrück Center for Molecular Medicine, and
NeuroCure Neuroscience Research Center (NWFZ), Berlin 13125, Germany.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2010 Aug;11(8):536-7.

Early in life, neural circuits are highly susceptible to outside influences. The 
organization of the primary auditory cortex (A1) in particular is governed by
acoustic experience during the critical period, an epoch near the beginning of
postnatal development throughout which cortical synapses and networks are
especially plastic. This neonatal sensitivity to the pattern of sensory inputs is
believed to be essential for constructing stable and adequately adapted
representations of the auditory world and for the acquisition of language skills 
by children. One important principle of synaptic organization in mature brains is
the balance between excitation and inhibition, which controls receptive field
structure and spatiotemporal flow of neural activity, but it is unknown how and
when this excitatory-inhibitory balance is initially established and calibrated. 
Here we use whole-cell recording to determine the processes underlying the
development of synaptic receptive fields in rat A1. We find that, immediately
after the onset of hearing, sensory-evoked excitatory and inhibitory responses
are equally strong, although inhibition is less stimulus-selective and mismatched
with excitation. However, during the third week of postnatal development,
excitation and inhibition become highly correlated. Patterned sensory stimulation
drives coordinated synaptic changes across receptive fields, rapidly improves
excitatory-inhibitory coupling and prevents further exposure-induced
modifications. Thus, the pace of cortical synaptic receptive field development is
set by progressive, experience-dependent refinement of intracortical inhibition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09119 
PMCID: PMC2888507
PMID: 20559387  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):927-31. doi: 10.1038/nature09079.

Fine-tuning of pre-balanced excitation and inhibition during auditory cortical
development.

Sun YJ(1), Wu GK, Liu BH, Li P, Zhou M, Xiao Z, Tao HW, Zhang LI.

Author information: 
(1)Zilkha Neurogenetic Institute, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern
California, Los Angeles, California 90089, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2010 Aug;11(8):536-7.

Functional receptive fields of neurons in sensory cortices undergo progressive
refinement during development. Such refinement may be attributed to the pruning
of non-optimal excitatory inputs, reshaping of the excitatory tuning profile
through modifying the strengths of individual inputs, or strengthening of
cortical inhibition. These models have not been directly tested because of the
technical difficulties in assaying the spatiotemporal patterns of functional
synaptic inputs during development. Here we apply in vivo whole-cell
voltage-clamp recordings to the recipient layer 4 neurons in the rat primary
auditory cortex (A1) to determine the developmental changes in the
frequency-intensity tonal receptive fields (TRFs) of their excitatory and
inhibitory inputs. Surprisingly, we observe co-tuned excitation and inhibition
immediately after the onset of hearing, suggesting that a tripartite
thalamocortical circuit with relatively strong feedforward inhibition is formed
independently of auditory experience. The frequency ranges of tone-driven
excitatory and inhibitory inputs first expand within a few days of the onset of
hearing and then persist into adulthood. The latter phase is accompanied by a
sharpening of the excitatory but not inhibitory frequency tuning profile, which
results in relatively broader inhibitory tuning in adult A1 neurons. Thus the
development of cortical synaptic TRFs after the onset of hearing is marked by a
slight breakdown of previously formed excitation-inhibition balance. Our results 
suggest that functional refinement of cortical TRFs does not require a selective 
pruning of inputs, but may depend more on a fine adjustment of excitatory input
strengths.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09079 
PMCID: PMC2909826
PMID: 20559386  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):913-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09063.

The importance of rift history for volcanic margin formation.

Armitage JJ(1), Collier JS, Minshull TA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Science & Engineering, Imperial College London, London SW7
2AZ, UK. j.armitage@imperial.ac.uk

Rifting and magmatism are fundamental geological processes that shape the surface
of our planet. A relationship between the two is widely acknowledged but its
precise nature has eluded geoscientists and remained controversial. Largely on
the basis of detailed observations from the North Atlantic Ocean, mantle
temperature was identified as the primary factor controlling magmatic production,
with most authors seeking to explain observed variations in volcanic activity at 
rifted margins in terms of the mantle temperature at the time of break-up.
However, as more detailed observations have been made at other rifted margins
worldwide, the validity of this interpretation and the importance of other
factors in controlling break-up style have been much debated. One such
observation is from the northwest Indian Ocean, where, despite an unequivocal
link between an onshore flood basalt province, continental break-up and a
hot-spot track leading to an active ocean island volcano, the associated
continental margins show little magmatism. Here we reconcile these observations
by applying a numerical model that accounts explicitly for the effects of earlier
episodes of extension. Our approach allows us to directly compare break-up
magmatism generated at different locations and so isolate the key controlling
factors. We show that the volume of rift-related magmatism generated, both in the
northwest Indian Ocean and at the better-known North Atlantic margins, depends
not only on the mantle temperature but, to a similar degree, on the rift history.
The inherited extensional history can either suppress or enhance melt generation,
which can explain previously enigmatic observations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09063 
PMID: 20559385 


477. Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):909-12. doi: 10.1038/nature09100.

Massive volcanic SO(2) oxidation and sulphate aerosol deposition in Cenozoic
North America.

Bao H(1), Yu S, Tong DQ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge,
Louisiana 70803-4101, USA. bao@lsu.edu

Volcanic eruptions release a large amount of sulphur dioxide (SO(2)) into the
atmosphere. SO(2) is oxidized to sulphate and can subsequently form sulphate
aerosol, which can affect the Earth's radiation balance, biologic productivity
and high-altitude ozone concentrations, as is evident from recent volcanic
eruptions. SO(2) oxidation can occur via several different pathways that depend
on its flux and the atmospheric conditions. An investigation into how SO(2) is
oxidized to sulphate-the oxidation product preserved in the rock record-can
therefore shed light on past volcanic eruptions and atmospheric conditions. Here 
we use sulphur and triple oxygen isotope measurements of atmospheric sulphate
extracted from tuffaceous deposits to investigate the specific oxidation pathways
from which the sulphate was formed. We find that seven eruption-related sulphate 
aerosol deposition events have occurred during the mid-Cenozoic era (34 to 7
million years ago) in the northern High Plains, North America. Two extensively
sampled ash beds display a similar sulphate mixing pattern that has two distinct 
atmospheric secondary sulphates. A three-dimensional atmospheric sulphur
chemistry and transport model study reveals that the observed, isotopically
discrete sulphates in sediments can be produced only in initially alkaline
cloudwater that favours an ozone-dominated SO(2) oxidation pathway in the
troposphere. Our finding suggests that, in contrast to the weakly acidic
conditions today, cloudwater in the northern High Plains may frequently have been
alkaline during the mid-Cenozoic era. We propose that atmospheric secondary
sulphate preserved in continental deposits represents an unexploited geological
archive for atmospheric SO(2) oxidation chemistry linked to volcanism and
atmospheric conditions in the past.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09100 
PMID: 20559384 


478. Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):905-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09110.

Visualizing and controlling vibrational wave packets of single molecules.

Brinks D(1), Stefani FD, Kulzer F, Hildner R, Taminiau TH, Avlasevich Y, Müllen
K, van Hulst NF.

Author information: 
(1)ICFO-Institut de Ciencies Fotoniques, Mediterranean Technology Park, 08860
Castelldefels (Barcelona), Spain.

The active steering of the pathways taken by chemical reactions and the
optimization of energy conversion processes provide striking examples of the
coherent control of quantum interference through the use of shaped laser pulses. 
Experimentally, coherence is usually established by synchronizing a subset of
molecules in an ensemble with ultra-short laser pulses. But in complex systems
where even chemically identical molecules exist with different conformations and 
in diverse environments, the synchronized subset will have an intrinsic
inhomogeneity that limits the degree of coherent control that can be achieved. A 
natural-and, indeed, the ultimate-solution to overcoming intrinsic
inhomogeneities is the investigation of the behaviour of one molecule at a time. 
The single-molecule approach has provided useful insights into phenomena as
diverse as biomolecular interactions, cellular processes and the dynamics of
supercooled liquids and conjugated polymers. Coherent state preparation of single
molecules has so far been restricted to cryogenic conditions, whereas at room
temperature only incoherent vibrational relaxation pathways have been probed.
Here we report the observation and manipulation of vibrational wave-packet
interference in individual molecules at ambient conditions. We show that adapting
the time and phase distribution of the optical excitation field to the dynamics
of each molecule results in a high degree of control, and expect that the
approach can be extended to achieve single-molecule coherent control in other
complex inhomogeneous systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09110 
PMID: 20559383 


479. Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):901-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09124.

Real-space observation of a two-dimensional skyrmion crystal.

Yu XZ(1), Onose Y, Kanazawa N, Park JH, Han JH, Matsui Y, Nagaosa N, Tokura Y.

Author information: 
(1)Advanced Electron Microscopy Group and High Voltage Electron Microscopy
Station, National Institute for Materials Science, Tsukuba 305-0044, Japan.
yu.xiuzhen@nims.go.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):880-1.

Crystal order is not restricted to the periodic atomic array, but can also be
found in electronic systems such as the Wigner crystal or in the form of orbital 
order, stripe order and magnetic order. In the case of magnetic order, spins
align parallel to each other in ferromagnets and antiparallel in
antiferromagnets. In other, less conventional, cases, spins can sometimes form
highly nontrivial structures called spin textures. Among them is the unusual,
topologically stable skyrmion spin texture, in which the spins point in all the
directions wrapping a sphere. The skyrmion configuration in a magnetic solid is
anticipated to produce unconventional spin-electronic phenomena such as the
topological Hall effect. The crystallization of skyrmions as driven by thermal
fluctuations has recently been confirmed in a narrow region of the
temperature/magnetic field (T-B) phase diagram in neutron scattering studies of
the three-dimensional helical magnets MnSi (ref. 17) and Fe(1-x)Co(x)Si (ref.
22). Here we report real-space imaging of a two-dimensional skyrmion lattice in a
thin film of Fe(0.5)Co(0.5)Si using Lorentz transmission electron microscopy.
With a magnetic field of 50-70 mT applied normal to the film, we observe
skyrmions in the form of a hexagonal arrangement of swirling spin textures, with 
a lattice spacing of 90 nm. The related T-B phase diagram is found to be in good 
agreement with Monte Carlo simulations. In this two-dimensional case, the
skyrmion crystal seems very stable and appears over a wide range of the phase
diagram, including near zero temperature. Such a controlled nanometre-scale spin 
topology in a thin film may be useful in observing unconventional
magneto-transport effects.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09124 
PMID: 20559382 


480. Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):897-900. doi: 10.1038/nature09109.

Size and albedo of Kuiper belt object 55636 from a stellar occultation.

Elliot JL(1), Person MJ, Zuluaga CA, Bosh AS, Adams ER, Brothers TC, Gulbis AA,
Levine SE, Lockhart M, Zangari AM, Babcock BA, Dupré K, Pasachoff JM, Souza SP,
Rosing W, Secrest N, Bright L, Dunham EW, Sheppard SS, Kakkala M, Tilleman T,
Berger B, Briggs JW, Jacobson G, Valleli P, Volz B, Rapoport S, Hart R, Brucker
M, Michel R, Mattingly A, Zambrano-Marin L, Meyer AW, Wolf J, Ryan EV, Ryan WH,
Morzinski K, Grigsby B, Brimacombe J, Ragozzine D, Montano HG, Gilmore A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth, Atmospheric, and Planetary Sciences, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA. jle@mit.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):878-9.

The Kuiper belt is a collection of small bodies (Kuiper belt objects, KBOs) that 
lie beyond the orbit of Neptune and which are believed to have formed
contemporaneously with the planets. Their small size and great distance make them
difficult to study. KBO 55636 (2002 TX(300)) is a member of the water-ice-rich
Haumea KBO collisional family. The Haumea family are among the most highly
reflective objects in the Solar System. Dynamical calculations indicate that the 
collision that created KBO 55636 occurred at least 1 Gyr ago. Here we report
observations of a multi-chord stellar occultation by KBO 55636, which occurred on
9 October 2009 ut. We find that it has a mean radius of 143 +/- 5 km (assuming a 
circular solution). Allowing for possible elliptical shapes, we find a geometric 
albedo of in the V photometric band, which establishes that KBO 55636 is smaller 
than previously thought and that, like its parent body, it is highly reflective. 
The dynamical age implies either that KBO 55636 has an active resurfacing
mechanism, or that fresh water-ice in the outer Solar System can persist for
gigayear timescales.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09109 
PMID: 20559381 


481. Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):891-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09138.

Diphthamide biosynthesis requires an organic radical generated by an iron-sulphur
enzyme.

Zhang Y(1), Zhu X, Torelli AT, Lee M, Dzikovski B, Koralewski RM, Wang E, Freed
J, Krebs C, Ealick SE, Lin H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Cornell University, Ithaca, New 
York 14853, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):544.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):877-8.

Archaeal and eukaryotic translation elongation factor 2 contain a unique
post-translationally modified histidine residue called diphthamide, which is the 
target of diphtheria toxin. The biosynthesis of diphthamide was proposed to
involve three steps, with the first being the formation of a C-C bond between the
histidine residue and the 3-amino-3-carboxypropyl group of
S-adenosyl-l-methionine (SAM). However, further details of the biosynthesis
remain unknown. Here we present structural and biochemical evidence showing that 
the first step of diphthamide biosynthesis in the archaeon Pyrococcus horikoshii 
uses a novel iron-sulphur-cluster enzyme, Dph2. Dph2 is a homodimer and each of
its monomers can bind a [4Fe-4S] cluster. Biochemical data suggest that unlike
the enzymes in the radical SAM superfamily, Dph2 does not form the canonical
5'-deoxyadenosyl radical. Instead, it breaks the C(gamma,Met)-S bond of SAM and
generates a 3-amino-3-carboxypropyl radical. Our results suggest that P.
horikoshii Dph2 represents a previously unknown, SAM-dependent,
[4Fe-4S]-containing enzyme that catalyses unprecedented chemistry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09138 
PMCID: PMC3006227
PMID: 20559380  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):942-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09076. Epub 2010 Jun 6.

Termination of autophagy and reformation of lysosomes regulated by mTOR.

Yu L(1), McPhee CK, Zheng L, Mardones GA, Rong Y, Peng J, Mi N, Zhao Y, Liu Z,
Wan F, Hailey DW, Oorschot V, Klumperman J, Baehrecke EH, Lenardo MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Immunology, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Autophagy is an evolutionarily conserved process by which cytoplasmic proteins
and organelles are catabolized. During starvation, the protein TOR (target of
rapamycin), a nutrient-responsive kinase, is inhibited, and this induces
autophagy. In autophagy, double-membrane autophagosomes envelop and sequester
intracellular components and then fuse with lysosomes to form autolysosomes,
which degrade their contents to regenerate nutrients. Current models of autophagy
terminate with the degradation of the autophagosome cargo in autolysosomes, but
the regulation of autophagy in response to nutrients and the subsequent fate of
the autolysosome are poorly understood. Here we show that mTOR signalling in rat 
kidney cells is inhibited during initiation of autophagy, but reactivated by
prolonged starvation. Reactivation of mTOR is autophagy-dependent and requires
the degradation of autolysosomal products. Increased mTOR activity attenuates
autophagy and generates proto-lysosomal tubules and vesicles that extrude from
autolysosomes and ultimately mature into functional lysosomes, thereby restoring 
the full complement of lysosomes in the cell-a process we identify in multiple
animal species. Thus, an evolutionarily conserved cycle in autophagy governs
nutrient sensing and lysosome homeostasis during starvation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09076 
PMCID: PMC2920749
PMID: 20526321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):918-21. doi: 10.1038/nature09113. Epub 2010 Jun 2.

Ecological interactions are evolutionarily conserved across the entire tree of
life.

Gómez JM(1), Verdú M, Perfectti F.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Ecología, Universidad de Granada, E-18071 Granada, Spain.
jmgreyes@ugr.es

Ecological interactions are crucial to understanding both the ecology and the
evolution of organisms. Because the phenotypic traits regulating species
interactions are largely a legacy of their ancestors, it is widely assumed that
ecological interactions are phylogenetically conserved, with closely related
species interacting with similar partners. However, the existing empirical
evidence is inadequate to appropriately evaluate the hypothesis of phylogenetic
conservatism in ecological interactions, because it is both ecologically and
taxonomically biased. In fact, most studies on the evolution of ecological
interactions have focused on specialized organisms, such as some parasites or
insect herbivores, belonging to a limited subset of the overall tree of life.
Here we study the evolution of host use in a large and diverse group of
interactions comprising both specialist and generalist acellular, unicellular and
multicellular organisms. We show that, as previously found for specialized
interactions, generalized interactions can be evolutionarily conserved.
Significant phylogenetic conservatism of interaction patterns was equally likely 
to occur in symbiotic and non-symbiotic interactions, as well as in mutualistic
and antagonistic interactions. Host-use differentiation among species was higher 
in phylogenetically conserved clades, irrespective of their generalization degree
and taxonomic position within the tree of life. Our findings strongly suggest a
shared pattern in the organization of biological systems through evolutionary
time, mediated by marked conservatism of ecological interactions among taxa.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09113 
PMID: 20520609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):947-50. doi: 10.1038/nature09082. Epub 2010 May 30.

Principles of stop-codon reading on the ribosome.

Sund J(1), Andér M, Aqvist J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Uppsala University, Biomedical
Center, Box 596, SE-751 24 Uppsala, Sweden.

In termination of protein synthesis, the bacterial release factors RF1 and RF2
bind to the ribosome through specific recognition of messenger RNA stop codons
and trigger hydrolysis of the bond between the nascent polypeptide and the
transfer RNA at the peptidyl-tRNA site, thereby releasing the newly synthesized
protein. The release factors are highly specific for a U in the first stop-codon 
position and recognize different combinations of purines in the second and third 
positions, with RF1 reading UAA and UAG and RF2 reading UAA and UGA. With
recently determined crystal structures of termination complexes, it has become
possible to decipher the energetics of stop-codon reading by computational
analysis and to clarify the origin of the high release-factor binding accuracy.
Here we report molecular dynamics free-energy calculations on different cognate
and non-cognate termination complexes. The simulations quantitatively explain the
basic principles of decoding in all three codon positions and reveal the key
elements responsible for specificity of the release factors. The overall reading 
mechanism involves hitherto unidentified interactions and recognition switches
that cannot be described in terms of a tripeptide anticodon model. Further
simulations of complexes with tRNA(Trp), the tRNA recognizing the triplet codon
for Trp, explain the observation of a 'leaky' stop codon and highlight the
fundamentally different third position reading by RF2, which leads to a high
stop-codon specificity with strong discrimination against the Trp codon. The
simulations clearly illustrate the versatility of codon reading by protein, which
goes far beyond tRNA mimicry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09082 
PMID: 20512119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):961-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09088. Epub 2010 May 26.

Structure of the bifunctional isocitrate dehydrogenase kinase/phosphatase.

Zheng J(1), Jia Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario K7L 3N6,
Canada.

The Escherichia coli isocitrate dehydrogenase kinase/phosphatase (AceK) is a
unique bifunctional enzyme that phosphorylates or dephosphorylates isocitrate
dehydrogenase (ICDH) in response to environmental changes, resulting in the
inactivation or, respectively, activation of ICDH. ICDH inactivation
short-circuits the Krebs cycle by enabling the glyoxlate bypass. It was the
discovery of AceK and ICDH that established the existence of protein
phosphorylation regulation in prokaryotes. As a 65-kDa protein, AceK is
significantly larger than typical eukaryotic protein kinases. Apart from the
ATP-binding motif, AceK does not share sequence homology with any eukaryotic
protein kinase or phosphatase. Most intriguingly, AceK possesses the two opposing
activities of protein kinase and phosphatase within one protein, and specifically
recognizes only intact ICDH. Additionally, AceK has strong ATPase activity. It
has been shown that AceK kinase, phosphatase and ATPase activities reside at the 
same site, although the molecular basis of such multifunctionality and its
regulation remains completely unknown. Here we report the structures of AceK and 
its complex with ICDH. The AceK structure reveals a eukaryotic
protein-kinase-like domain containing ATP and a regulatory domain with a novel
fold. As an AceK phosphatase activator and kinase inhibitor, AMP is found to bind
in an allosteric site between the two AceK domains. An AMP-mediated
conformational change exposes and shields ATP, acting as a switch between AceK
kinase and phosphatase activities, and ICDH-binding induces further
conformational change for AceK activation. The substrate recognition loop of AceK
binds to the ICDH dimer, allowing higher-order substrate recognition and
interaction, and inducing critical conformational change at the phosphorylation
site of ICDH.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09088 
PMID: 20505668  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):922-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09105. Epub 2010 May 19.

Sequence space and the ongoing expansion of the protein universe.

Povolotskaya IS(1), Kondrashov FA.

Author information: 
(1)Bioinformatics and Genomics Programme, Centre for Genomic Regulation, Calle Dr
Aiguader 88, Barcelona Biomedical Research Park Building, 08003 Barcelona, Spain.

The need to maintain the structural and functional integrity of an evolving
protein severely restricts the repertoire of acceptable amino-acid substitutions.
However, it is not known whether these restrictions impose a global limit on how 
far homologous protein sequences can diverge from each other. Here we explore the
limits of protein evolution using sequence divergence data. We formulate a
computational approach to study the rate of divergence of distant protein
sequences and measure this rate for ancient proteins, those that were present in 
the last universal common ancestor. We show that ancient proteins are still
diverging from each other, indicating an ongoing expansion of the protein
sequence universe. The slow rate of this divergence is imposed by the sparseness 
of functional protein sequences in sequence space and the ruggedness of the
protein fitness landscape: approximately 98 per cent of sites cannot accept an
amino-acid substitution at any given moment but a vast majority of all sites may 
eventually be permitted to evolve when other, compensatory, changes occur. Thus, 
approximately 3.5 x 10(9) yr has not been enough to reach the limit of divergent 
evolution of proteins, and for most proteins the limit of sequence similarity
imposed by common function may not exceed that of random sequences.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09105 
PMID: 20485343  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):885-90. doi: 10.1038/nature09121. Epub 2010 May 19.

Helical assembly in the MyD88-IRAK4-IRAK2 complex in TLR/IL-1R signalling.

Lin SC(1), Lo YC, Wu H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York 
10021, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):882-3.

MyD88, IRAK4 and IRAK2 are critical signalling mediators of the TLR/IL1-R
superfamily. Here we report the crystal structure of the MyD88-IRAK4-IRAK2 death 
domain (DD) complex, which surprisingly reveals a left-handed helical oligomer
that consists of 6 MyD88, 4 IRAK4 and 4 IRAK2 DDs. Assembly of this helical
signalling tower is hierarchical, in which MyD88 recruits IRAK4 and the
MyD88-IRAK4 complex recruits the IRAK4 substrates IRAK2 or the related IRAK1.
Formation of these Myddosome complexes brings the kinase domains of IRAKs into
proximity for phosphorylation and activation. Composite binding sites are
required for recruitment of the individual DDs in the complex, which are
confirmed by mutagenesis and previously identified signalling mutations.
Specificities in Myddosome formation are dictated by both molecular
complementarity and correspondence of surface electrostatics. The
MyD88-IRAK4-IRAK2 complex provides a template for Toll signalling in Drosophila
and an elegant mechanism for versatile assembly and regulation of DD complexes in
signal transduction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09121 
PMCID: PMC2888693
PMID: 20485341  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):951-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09097. Epub 2010 May 9.

Ubiquitin-dependent DNA damage bypass is separable from genome replication.

Daigaku Y(1), Davies AA, Ulrich HD.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research UK London Research Institute, Clare Hall Laboratories, Blanche
Lane, South Mimms EN6 3LD, UK.

Post-replication repair (PRR) is a pathway that allows cells to bypass or
overcome lesions during DNA replication. In eukaryotes, damage bypass is
activated by ubiquitylation of the replication clamp PCNA through components of
the RAD6 pathway. Whereas monoubiquitylation of PCNA allows mutagenic translesion
synthesis by damage-tolerant DNA polymerases, polyubiquitylation is required for 
an error-free pathway that probably involves a template switch to the undamaged
sister chromatid. Both the timing of PRR events during the cell cycle and their
location relative to replication forks, as well as the factors required
downstream of PCNA ubiquitylation, have remained poorly characterized. Here we
demonstrate that the RAD6 pathway normally operates during S phase. However,
using an inducible system of DNA damage bypass in budding yeast (Saccharomyces
cerevisiae), we show that the process is separable in time and space from genome 
replication, thus allowing direct visualization and quantification of productive 
PRR tracts. We found that both during and after S phase
ultraviolet-radiation-induced lesions are bypassed predominantly via translesion 
synthesis, whereas the error-free pathway functions as a backup system. Our
approach has revealed the distribution of PRR tracts in a synchronized cell
population. It will allow an in-depth mechanistic analysis of how cells manage
the processing of lesions to their genomes during and after replication.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09097 
PMCID: PMC2888004
PMID: 20453836  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):813-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09106.

Tumour angiogenesis is reduced in the Tc1 mouse model of Down's syndrome.

Reynolds LE(1), Watson AR, Baker M, Jones TA, D'Amico G, Robinson SD, Joffre C,
Garrido-Urbani S, Rodriguez-Manzaneque JC, Martino-Echarri E, Aurrand-Lions M,
Sheer D, Dagna-Bricarelli F, Nizetic D, McCabe CJ, Turnell AS, Kermorgant S,
Imhof BA, Adams R, Fisher EM, Tybulewicz VL, Hart IR, Hodivala-Dilke KM.

Author information: 
(1)Adhesion and Angiogenesis Laboratory, Barts Institute of Cancer, Barts and The
London School of Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary University of London, John
Vane Science Centre, Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6BQ, UK.
l.reynolds@qmul.ac.uk

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 15;466(7304):398.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2010 Aug;10(8):534-5.

Down's syndrome (DS) is a genetic disorder caused by full or partial trisomy of
human chromosome 21 and presents with many clinical phenotypes including a
reduced incidence of solid tumours. Recent work with the Ts65Dn model of DS,
which has orthologues of about 50% of the genes on chromosome 21 (Hsa21), has
indicated that three copies of the ETS2 (ref. 3) or DS candidate region 1 (DSCR1)
genes (a previously known suppressor of angiogenesis) is sufficient to inhibit
tumour growth. Here we use the Tc1 transchromosomic mouse model of DS to dissect 
the contribution of extra copies of genes on Hsa21 to tumour angiogenesis. This
mouse expresses roughly 81% of Hsa21 genes but not the human DSCR1 region. We
transplanted B16F0 and Lewis lung carcinoma tumour cells into Tc1 mice and showed
that growth of these tumours was substantially reduced compared with wild-type
littermate controls. Furthermore, tumour angiogenesis was significantly repressed
in Tc1 mice. In particular, in vitro and in vivo angiogenic responses to vascular
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) were inhibited. Examination of the genes on the 
segment of Hsa21 in Tc1 mice identified putative anti-angiogenic genes
(ADAMTS1and ERG) and novel endothelial cell-specific genes, never previously
shown to be involved in angiogenesis (JAM-B and PTTG1IP), that, when
overexpressed, are responsible for inhibiting angiogenic responses to VEGF. Three
copies of these genes within the stromal compartment reduced tumour angiogenesis,
explaining the reduced tumour growth in DS. Furthermore, we expect that, in
addition to the candidate genes that we show to be involved in the repression of 
angiogenesis, the Tc1 mouse model of DS will permit the identification of other
endothelium-specific anti-angiogenic targets relevant to a broad spectrum of
cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09106 
PMCID: PMC3479956
PMID: 20535211  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):808-12. doi: 10.1038/nature09005.

Patient-specific induced pluripotent stem-cell-derived models of LEOPARD
syndrome.

Carvajal-Vergara X(1), Sevilla A, D'Souza SL, Ang YS, Schaniel C, Lee DF, Yang L,
Kaplan AD, Adler ED, Rozov R, Ge Y, Cohen N, Edelmann LJ, Chang B, Waghray A, Su 
J, Pardo S, Lichtenbelt KD, Tartaglia M, Gelb BD, Lemischka IR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gene and Cell Medicine, Black Family Stem Cell Institute, Mount 
Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York 10029, USA. xcarvajal@gmail.com

The generation of reprogrammed induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from
patients with defined genetic disorders holds the promise of increased
understanding of the aetiologies of complex diseases and may also facilitate the 
development of novel therapeutic interventions. We have generated iPSCs from
patients with LEOPARD syndrome (an acronym formed from its main features; that
is, lentigines, electrocardiographic abnormalities, ocular hypertelorism,
pulmonary valve stenosis, abnormal genitalia, retardation of growth and
deafness), an autosomal-dominant developmental disorder belonging to a relatively
prevalent class of inherited RAS-mitogen-activated protein kinase signalling
diseases, which also includes Noonan syndrome, with pleomorphic effects on
several tissues and organ systems. The patient-derived cells have a mutation in
the PTPN11 gene, which encodes the SHP2 phosphatase. The iPSCs have been
extensively characterized and produce multiple differentiated cell lineages. A
major disease phenotype in patients with LEOPARD syndrome is hypertrophic
cardiomyopathy. We show that in vitro-derived cardiomyocytes from LEOPARD
syndrome iPSCs are larger, have a higher degree of sarcomeric organization and
preferential localization of NFATC4 in the nucleus when compared with
cardiomyocytes derived from human embryonic stem cells or wild-type iPSCs derived
from a healthy brother of one of the LEOPARD syndrome patients. These features
correlate with a potential hypertrophic state. We also provide molecular insights
into signalling pathways that may promote the disease phenotype.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09005 
PMCID: PMC2885001
PMID: 20535210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):793-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09135.

Quiescent haematopoietic stem cells are activated by IFN-gamma in response to
chronic infection.

Baldridge MT(1), King KY, Boles NC, Weksberg DC, Goodell MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Lymphocytes and neutrophils are rapidly depleted by systemic infection.
Progenitor cells of the haematopoietic system, such as common myeloid progenitors
and common lymphoid progenitors, increase the production of immune cells to
restore and maintain homeostasis during chronic infection, but the contribution
of haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) to this process is largely unknown. Here we
show, using an in vivo mouse model of Mycobacterium avium infection, that an
increased proportion of long-term repopulating HSCs proliferate during M. avium
infection, and that this response requires interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) but not
interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) signalling. Thus, the haematopoietic response to
chronic bacterial infection involves the activation not only of intermediate
blood progenitors but of long-term repopulating HSCs as well. IFN-gamma is
sufficient to promote long-term repopulating HSC proliferation in vivo;
furthermore, HSCs from IFN-gamma-deficient mice have a lower proliferative rate, 
indicating that baseline IFN-gamma tone regulates HSC activity. These findings
implicate IFN-gamma both as a regulator of HSCs during homeostasis and under
conditions of infectious stress. Our studies contribute to a deeper understanding
of haematological responses in patients with chronic infections such as HIV/AIDS 
or tuberculosis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09135 
PMCID: PMC2935898
PMID: 20535209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):767-70. doi: 10.1038/nature09072.

The lead isotopic age of the Earth can be explained by core formation alone.

Wood BJ(1), Halliday AN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3PR, UK.
berniew@earth.ox.ac.uk

The meaning of the age of the Earth defined by lead isotopes has long been
unclear. Recently it has been proposed that the age of the Earth deduced from
lead isotopes reflects volatile loss to space at the time of the Moon-forming
giant impact rather than partitioning into metallic liquids during protracted
core formation. Here we show that lead partitioning into liquid iron depends
strongly on carbon content and that, given a content of approximately 0.2%
carbon, experimental and isotopic data both provide evidence of strong
partitioning of lead into the core throughout the Earth's accretion. Earlier
conclusions that lead is weakly partitioned into iron arose from the use of
carbon-saturated (about 5% C) iron alloys. The lead isotopic age of the Earth is 
therefore consistent with partitioning into the core and with no significant late
losses of moderately volatile elements to space during the giant impact.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09072 
PMID: 20535208 


493. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):763-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09084.

Electron localization following attosecond molecular photoionization.

Sansone G(1), Kelkensberg F, Pérez-Torres JF, Morales F, Kling MF, Siu W, Ghafur 
O, Johnsson P, Swoboda M, Benedetti E, Ferrari F, Lépine F, Sanz-Vicario JL,
Zherebtsov S, Znakovskaya I, L'huillier A, Ivanov MY, Nisoli M, Martín F,
Vrakking MJ.

Author information: 
(1)CNR-INFM, National Laboratory for Ultrafast and Ultraintense Optical Science, 
Department of Physics, Politecnico of Milan, Piazza L. da Vinci 32, 20133 Milano,
Italy.

For the past several decades, we have been able to directly probe the motion of
atoms that is associated with chemical transformations and which occurs on the
femtosecond (10(-15)-s) timescale. However, studying the inner workings of atoms 
and molecules on the electronic timescale has become possible only with the
recent development of isolated attosecond (10(-18)-s) laser pulses. Such pulses
have been used to investigate atomic photoexcitation and photoionization and
electron dynamics in solids, and in molecules could help explore the prompt
charge redistribution and localization that accompany photoexcitation processes. 
In recent work, the dissociative ionization of H(2) and D(2) was monitored on
femtosecond timescales and controlled using few-cycle near-infrared laser pulses.
Here we report a molecular attosecond pump-probe experiment based on that work:
H(2) and D(2) are dissociatively ionized by a sequence comprising an isolated
attosecond ultraviolet pulse and an intense few-cycle infrared pulse, and a
localization of the electronic charge distribution within the molecule is
measured that depends-with attosecond time resolution-on the delay between the
pump and probe pulses. The localization occurs by means of two mechanisms, where 
the infrared laser influences the photoionization or the dissociation of the
molecular ion. In the first case, charge localization arises from quantum
mechanical interference involving autoionizing states and the laser-altered
wavefunction of the departing electron. In the second case, charge localization
arises owing to laser-driven population transfer between different electronic
states of the molecular ion. These results establish attosecond pump-probe
strategies as a powerful tool for investigating the complex molecular dynamics
that result from the coupling between electronic and nuclear motions beyond the
usual Born-Oppenheimer approximation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09084 
PMID: 20535207 


494. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):759-62. doi: 10.1038/nature09069.

Daughter bubble cascades produced by folding of ruptured thin films.

Bird JC(1), de Ruiter R, Courbin L, Stone HA.

Author information: 
(1)School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA. jbird@fas.harvard.edu

Thin liquid films, such as soap bubbles, have been studied extensively for over a
century because they are easily formed and mediate a wide range of transport
processes in physics, chemistry and engineering. When a bubble on a liquid-gas or
solid-gas interface (referred to herein as an interfacial bubble) ruptures, the
general expectation is that the bubble vanishes. More precisely, the ruptured
thin film is expected to retract rapidly until it becomes part of the interface, 
an event that typically occurs within milliseconds. The assumption that ruptured 
bubbles vanish is central to theories on foam evolution and relevant to health
and climate because bubble rupture is a source for aerosol droplets. Here we show
that for a large range of fluid parameters, interfacial bubbles can create
numerous small bubbles when they rupture, rather than vanishing. We demonstrate, 
both experimentally and numerically, that the curved film of the ruptured bubble 
can fold and entrap air as it retracts. The resulting toroidal geometry of the
trapped air is unstable, leading to the creation of a ring of smaller bubbles.
The higher pressure associated with the higher curvature of the smaller bubbles
increases the absorption of gas into the liquid, and increases the efficiency of 
rupture-induced aerosol dispersal.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09069 
PMID: 20535206 


495. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):752-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09096.

The recent formation of Saturn's moonlets from viscous spreading of the main
rings.

Charnoz S(1), Salmon J, Crida A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire AIM, Université Paris Diderot/CEA/CNRS, 91191 Gif sur Yvette,
France. charnoz@cea.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):701-2.

The regular satellites of the giant planets are believed to have finished their
accretion concurrent with the planets, about 4.5 Gyr ago. A population of
Saturn's small moons orbiting just outside the main rings are dynamically young
(less than 10(7) yr old), which is inconsistent with the formation timescale for 
the regular satellites. They are also underdense ( approximately 600 kg m(-3))
and show spectral characteristics similar to those of the main rings. It has been
suggested that they accreted at the rings' edge, but hitherto it has been
impossible to model the formation process fully owing to a lack of computational 
power. Here we report a hybrid simulation in which the viscous spreading of
Saturn's rings beyond the Roche limit (the distance beyond which the rings are
gravitationally unstable) gives rise to the small moons. The moonlets' mass
distribution and orbital architecture are reproduced. The current confinement of 
the main rings and the existence of the dusty F ring are shown to be direct
consequences of the coupling of viscous evolution and satellite formation.
Saturn's rings, like a mini protoplanetary disk, may be the last place where
accretion was recently active in the Solar System, some 10(6)-10(7) yr ago.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09096 
PMID: 20535205 


496. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):747-51. doi: 10.1038/nature09131.

Crystal structure of HIV-1 Tat complexed with human P-TEFb.

Tahirov TH(1), Babayeva ND, Varzavand K, Cooper JJ, Sedore SC, Price DH.

Author information: 
(1)Eppley Institute for Research in Cancer and Allied Diseases, University of
Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, Nebraska 68198-7696, USA. ttahirov@unmc.edu

Regulation of the expression of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) genome is 
accomplished in large part by controlling transcription elongation. The viral
protein Tat hijacks the host cell's RNA polymerase II elongation control
machinery through interaction with the positive transcription elongation factor, 
P-TEFb, and directs the factor to promote productive elongation of HIV mRNA. Here
we describe the crystal structure of the Tat.P-TEFb complex containing HIV-1 Tat,
human Cdk9 (also known as CDK9), and human cyclin T1 (also known as CCNT1). Tat
adopts a structure complementary to the surface of P-TEFb and makes extensive
contacts, mainly with the cyclin T1 subunit of P-TEFb, but also with the T-loop
of the Cdk9 subunit. The structure provides a plausible explanation for the
tolerance of Tat to sequence variations at certain sites. Importantly, Tat
induces significant conformational changes in P-TEFb. This finding lays a
foundation for the design of compounds that would specifically inhibit the
Tat.P-TEFb complex and block HIV replication.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09131 
PMCID: PMC2885016
PMID: 20535204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):736-45. doi: 10.1038/nature09232.

Measurement of single-cell dynamics.

Spiller DG(1), Wood CD, Rand DA, White MR.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Cell Imaging, School of Biological Sciences, Bioscience Research
Building, Crown Street, Liverpool L69 7ZB, UK.

Populations of cells are almost always heterogeneous in function and fate. To
understand the plasticity of cells, it is vital to measure quantitatively and
dynamically the molecular processes that underlie cell-fate decisions in single
cells. Early events in cell signalling often occur within seconds of the
stimulus, whereas intracellular signalling processes and transcriptional changes 
can take minutes or hours. By contrast, cell-fate decisions, such as whether a
cell divides, differentiates or dies, can take many hours or days. Multiparameter
experimental and computational methods that integrate quantitative measurement
and mathematical simulation of these noisy and complex processes are required to 
understand the highly dynamic mechanisms that control cell plasticity and fate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09232 
PMID: 20535203  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):728-35. doi: 10.1038/nature09231.

Brain function and chromatin plasticity.

Dulac C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard University, 16 Divinity Avenue,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. dulac@fas.harvard.edu

The characteristics of epigenetic control, including the potential for
long-lasting, stable effects on gene expression that outlive an initial transient
signal, could be of singular importance for post-mitotic neurons, which are
subject to changes with short- to long-lasting influence on their activity and
connectivity. Persistent changes in chromatin structure are thought to contribute
to mechanisms of epigenetic inheritance. Recent advances in chromatin biology
offer new avenues to investigate regulatory mechanisms underlying long-lasting
changes in neurons, with direct implications for the study of brain function,
behaviour and diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09231 
PMCID: PMC3075582
PMID: 20535202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):721-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09230.

Epigenetics as a unifying principle in the aetiology of complex traits and
diseases.

Petronis A(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Krembil Family Epigenetics Laboratory, Centre for Addiction and Mental
Health, 250 College Street, Toronto, Ontario M5T 1R8, Canada.
arturas_petronis@camh.net

Epigenetic modifications of DNA and histones might be crucial for understanding
the molecular basis of complex phenotypes. One reason for this is that epigenetic
factors are sometimes malleable and plastic enough to react to cues from the
external and internal environments. Such induced epigenetic changes can be
solidified and propagated during cell division, resulting in permanent
maintenance of the acquired phenotype. In addition, the finding that there is
partial epigenetic stability in somatic and germline cells allows insight into
the molecular mechanisms of heritability. Epigenetics can provide a new framework
for the search of aetiological factors in complex traits and diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09230 
PMID: 20535201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):713-20. doi: 10.1038/nature09228.

Extrinsic regulation of pluripotent stem cells.

Pera MF(1), Tam PP.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Regenerative Medicine and Stem Cell Research, Keck School of
Medicine, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California 90033, USA. 
pera@usc.edu

During early mammalian development, as the pluripotent cells that give rise to
all of the tissues of the body proliferate and expand in number, they pass
through transition states marked by a stepwise restriction in developmental
potential and by changes in the expression of key regulatory genes. Recent
findings show that cultured stem-cell lines derived from different stages of
mouse development can mimic these transition states. They further reveal that
there is a high degree of heterogeneity and plasticity in pluripotent populations
in vitro and that these properties are modulated by extrinsic signalling.
Understanding the extrinsic control of plasticity will guide efforts to use human
pluripotent stem cells in research and therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09228 
PMID: 20535200  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):704-12. doi: 10.1038/nature09229.

Nuclear reprogramming to a pluripotent state by three approaches.

Yamanaka S(1), Blau HM.

Author information: 
(1)Center for iPS Cell Research and Application, Kyoto University, Kyoto
606-8507, Japan.

The stable states of differentiated cells are now known to be controlled by
dynamic mechanisms that can easily be perturbed. An adult cell can therefore be
reprogrammed, altering its pattern of gene expression, and hence its fate, to
that typical of another cell type. This has been shown by three distinct
experimental approaches to nuclear reprogramming: nuclear transfer, cell fusion
and transcription-factor transduction. Using these approaches, nuclei from
'terminally differentiated' somatic cells can be induced to express genes that
are typical of embryonic stem cells, which can differentiate to form all of the
cell types in the body. This remarkable discovery of cellular plasticity has
important medical applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09229 
PMCID: PMC2901154
PMID: 20535199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):818-22. doi: 10.1038/nature09039. Epub 2010 May 26.

Structural basis for 5'-nucleotide base-specific recognition of guide RNA by
human AGO2.

Frank F(1), Sonenberg N, Nagar B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, McGill University, Montréal, Québec H3G 0B1,
Canada.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) mediate post-transcriptional gene regulation through
association with Argonaute proteins (AGOs). Crystal structures of archaeal and
bacterial homologues of AGOs have shown that the MID (middle) domain mediates the
interaction with the phosphorylated 5' end of the miRNA guide strand and this
interaction is thought to be independent of the identity of the 5' nucleotide in 
these systems. However, analysis of the known sequences of eukaryotic miRNAs and 
co-immunoprecipitation experiments indicate that there is a clear bias for U or A
at the 5' position. Here we report the crystal structure of a MID domain from a
eukaryotic AGO protein, human AGO2. The structure, in complex with nucleoside
monophosphates (AMP, CMP, GMP, and UMP) mimicking the 5' end of miRNAs, shows
that there are specific contacts made between the base of UMP or AMP and a rigid 
loop in the MID domain. Notably, the structure of the loop discriminates against 
CMP and GMP and dissociation constants calculated from NMR titration experiments 
confirm these results, showing that AMP (0.26 mM) and UMP (0.12 mM) bind with up 
to 30-fold higher affinity than either CMP (3.6 mM) or GMP (3.3 mM). This study
provides structural evidence for nucleotide-specific interactions in the MID
domain of eukaryotic AGO proteins and explains the observed preference for U or A
at the 5' end of miRNAs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09039 
PMID: 20505670  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):783-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09041. Epub 2010 May 26.

Distinct FGFs promote differentiation of excitatory and inhibitory synapses.

Terauchi A(1), Johnson-Venkatesh EM, Toth AB, Javed D, Sutton MA, Umemori H.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Behavioral Neuroscience Institute, University of Michigan
Medical School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-2200, USA.

The differential formation of excitatory (glutamate-mediated) and inhibitory
(GABA-mediated) synapses is a critical step for the proper functioning of the
brain. An imbalance in these synapses may lead to various neurological disorders 
such as autism, schizophrenia, Tourette's syndrome and epilepsy. Synapses are
formed through communication between the appropriate synaptic partners. However, 
the molecular mechanisms that mediate the formation of specific synaptic types
are not known. Here we show that two members of the fibroblast growth factor
(FGF) family, FGF22 and FGF7, promote the organization of excitatory and
inhibitory presynaptic terminals, respectively, as target-derived presynaptic
organizers. FGF22 and FGF7 are expressed by CA3 pyramidal neurons in the
hippocampus. The differentiation of excitatory or inhibitory nerve terminals on
dendrites of CA3 pyramidal neurons is specifically impaired in mutants lacking
FGF22 or FGF7. These presynaptic defects are rescued by postsynaptic expression
of the appropriate FGF. FGF22-deficient mice are resistant to epileptic seizures,
and FGF7-deficient mice are prone to them, as expected from the alterations in
excitatory/inhibitory balance. Differential effects of FGF22 and FGF7 involve
both their distinct synaptic localizations and their use of different signalling 
pathways. These results demonstrate that specific FGFs act as target-derived
presynaptic organizers and help to organize specific presynaptic terminals in the
mammalian brain.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09041 
PMCID: PMC4137042
PMID: 20505669  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):771-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09077. Epub 2010 May 23.

Small mammal diversity loss in response to late-Pleistocene climatic change.

Blois JL(1), McGuire JL, Hadly EA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
blois@wisc.edu

Communities have been shaped in numerous ways by past climatic change; this
process continues today. At the end of the Pleistocene epoch about 11,700 years
ago, North American communities were substantially altered by the interplay of
two events. The climate shifted from the cold, arid Last Glacial Maximum to the
warm, mesic Holocene interglacial, causing many mammal species to shift their
geographic distributions substantially. Populations were further stressed as
humans arrived on the continent. The resulting megafaunal extinction event, in
which 70 of the roughly 220 largest mammals in North America (32%) became
extinct, has received much attention. However, responses of small mammals to
events at the end of the Pleistocene have been much less studied, despite the
sensitivity of these animals to current and future environmental change. Here we 
examine community changes in small mammals in northern California during the last
'natural' global warming event at the Pleistocene-Holocene transition and show
that even though no small mammals in the local community became extinct, species 
losses and gains, combined with changes in abundance, caused declines in both the
evenness and richness of communities. Modern mammalian communities are thus
depauperate not only as a result of megafaunal extinctions at the end of the
Pleistocene but also because of diversity loss among small mammals. Our results
suggest that across future landscapes there will be some unanticipated effects of
global change on diversity: restructuring of small mammal communities,
significant loss of richness, and perhaps the rising dominance of native 'weedy' 
species.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09077 
PMID: 20495547  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):788-92. doi: 10.1038/nature09108.

Global and local fMRI signals driven by neurons defined optogenetically by type
and wiring.

Lee JH(1), Durand R, Gradinaru V, Zhang F, Goshen I, Kim DS, Fenno LE,
Ramakrishnan C, Deisseroth K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrical Engineering, Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences,
Bioengineering, and Radiology, University of California, Los Angeles, California 
90095, USA. ljinhy@gmail.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):700-1.
    Nature. 2010 Nov 25;468(7323):E3-4; discussion E4-5.

Despite a rapidly-growing scientific and clinical brain imaging literature based 
on functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) using blood oxygenation
level-dependent (BOLD) signals, it remains controversial whether BOLD signals in 
a particular region can be caused by activation of local excitatory neurons. This
difficult question is central to the interpretation and utility of BOLD, with
major significance for fMRI studies in basic research and clinical applications. 
Using a novel integrated technology unifying optogenetic control of inputs with
high-field fMRI signal readouts, we show here that specific stimulation of local 
CaMKIIalpha-expressing excitatory neurons, either in the neocortex or thalamus,
elicits positive BOLD signals at the stimulus location with classical kinetics.
We also show that optogenetic fMRI (of MRI) allows visualization of the causal
effects of specific cell types defined not only by genetic identity and cell body
location, but also by axonal projection target. Finally, we show that of MRI
within the living and intact mammalian brain reveals BOLD signals in downstream
targets distant from the stimulus, indicating that this approach can be used to
map the global effects of controlling a local cell population. In this respect,
unlike both conventional fMRI studies based on correlations and fMRI with
electrical stimulation that will also directly drive afferent and nearby axons,
this of MRI approach provides causal information about the global circuits
recruited by defined local neuronal activity patterns. Together these findings
provide an empirical foundation for the widely-used fMRI BOLD signal, and the
features of of MRI define a potent tool that may be suitable for functional
circuit analysis as well as global phenotyping of dysfunctional circuitry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09108 
PMCID: PMC3177305
PMID: 20473285  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):779-82. doi: 10.1038/nature09065. Epub 2010 May 16.

Moonlighting bacteriophage proteins derepress staphylococcal pathogenicity
islands.

Tormo-Más MA(1), Mir I, Shrestha A, Tallent SM, Campoy S, Lasa I, Barbé J, Novick
RP, Christie GE, Penadés JR.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Investigación y Tecnología Animal, Instituto Valenciano de
Investigaciones Agrarias (CITA-IVIA), Apdo. 187, Segorbe, Castellón 12400, Spain.

Staphylococcal superantigen-carrying pathogenicity islands (SaPIs) are discrete, 
chromosomally integrated units of approximately 15 kilobases that are induced by 
helper phages to excise and replicate. SaPI DNA is then efficiently encapsidated 
in phage-like infectious particles, leading to extremely high frequencies of
intra- as well as intergeneric transfer. In the absence of helper phage lytic
growth, the island is maintained in a quiescent prophage-like state by a global
repressor, Stl, which controls expression of most of the SaPI genes. Here we show
that SaPI derepression is effected by a specific, non-essential phage protein
that binds to Stl, disrupting the Stl-DNA complex and thereby initiating the
excision-replication-packaging cycle of the island. Because SaPIs require phage
proteins to be packaged, this strategy assures that SaPIs will be transferred
once induced. Several different SaPIs are induced by helper phage 80alpha and, in
each case, the SaPI commandeers a different non-essential phage protein for its
derepression. The highly specific interactions between different SaPI repressors 
and helper-phage-encoded antirepressors represent a remarkable evolutionary
adaptation involved in pathogenicity island mobilization.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09065 
PMCID: PMC3518041
PMID: 20473284  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):755-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09093. Epub 2010 May 12.

Electromagnetically induced transparency with single atoms in a cavity.

Mücke M(1), Figueroa E, Bochmann J, Hahn C, Murr K, Ritter S, Villas-Boas CJ,
Rempe G.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Quantenoptik, Hans-Kopfermann-Str. 1, D-85748
Garching, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):699-700.

Optical nonlinearities offer unique possibilities for the control of light with
light. A prominent example is electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT),
where the transmission of a probe beam through an optically dense medium is
manipulated by means of a control beam. Scaling such experiments into the quantum
domain with one (or just a few) particles of light and matter will allow for the 
implementation of quantum computing protocols with atoms and photons, or the
realization of strongly interacting photon gases exhibiting quantum phase
transitions of light. Reaching these aims is challenging and requires an enhanced
matter-light interaction, as provided by cavity quantum electrodynamics. Here we 
demonstrate EIT with a single atom quasi-permanently trapped inside a
high-finesse optical cavity. The atom acts as a quantum-optical transistor with
the ability to coherently control the transmission of light through the cavity.
We investigate the scaling of EIT when the atom number is increased one-by-one.
The measured spectra are in excellent agreement with a theoretical model. Merging
EIT with cavity quantum electrodynamics and single quanta of matter is likely to 
become the cornerstone for novel applications, such as dynamic control of the
photon statistics of propagating light fields or the engineering of Fock state
superpositions of flying light pulses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09093 
PMID: 20463661 


508. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):803-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09091.

Progesterone induces adult mammary stem cell expansion.

Joshi PA(1), Jackson HW, Beristain AG, Di Grappa MA, Mote PA, Clarke CL, Stingl
J, Waterhouse PD, Khokha R.

Author information: 
(1)Ontario Cancer Institute, Department of Medical Biophysics and Department of
Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, Toronto M5G 2M9,
Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2010 Jul;10(7):451.
    Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):695-6.

Reproductive history is the strongest risk factor for breast cancer after age,
genetics and breast density. Increased breast cancer risk is entwined with a
greater number of ovarian hormone-dependent reproductive cycles, yet the basis
for this predisposition is unknown. Mammary stem cells (MaSCs) are located within
a specialized niche in the basal epithelial compartment that is under local and
systemic regulation. The emerging role of MaSCs in cancer initiation warrants the
study of ovarian hormones in MaSC homeostasis. Here we show that the MaSC pool
increases 14-fold during maximal progesterone levels at the luteal dioestrus
phase of the mouse. Stem-cell-enriched CD49fhi cells amplify at dioestrus, or
with exogenous progesterone, demonstrating a key role for progesterone in
propelling this expansion. In aged mice, CD49fhi cells display stasis upon
cessation of the reproductive cycle. Progesterone drives a series of events where
luminal cells probably provide Wnt4 and RANKL signals to basal cells which in
turn respond by upregulating their cognate receptors, transcriptional targets and
cell cycle markers. Our findings uncover a dynamic role for progesterone in
activating adult MaSCs within the mammary stem cell niche during the reproductive
cycle, where MaSCs are putative targets for cell transformation events leading to
breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09091 
PMID: 20445538  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):775-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09042.

Putting brain training to the test.

Owen AM(1), Hampshire A, Grahn JA, Stenton R, Dajani S, Burns AS, Howard RJ,
Ballard CG.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, 15 Chaucer Road, Cambridge CB2 7EF, UK.
adrian.owen@mrc-cbu.cam.ac.uk

'Brain training', or the goal of improved cognitive function through the regular 
use of computerized tests, is a multimillion-pound industry, yet in our view
scientific evidence to support its efficacy is lacking. Modest effects have been 
reported in some studies of older individuals and preschool children, and
video-game players outperform non-players on some tests of visual attention.
However, the widely held belief that commercially available computerized
brain-training programs improve general cognitive function in the wider
population in our opinion lacks empirical support. The central question is not
whether performance on cognitive tests can be improved by training, but rather,
whether those benefits transfer to other untrained tasks or lead to any general
improvement in the level of cognitive functioning. Here we report the results of 
a six-week online study in which 11,430 participants trained several times each
week on cognitive tasks designed to improve reasoning, memory, planning,
visuospatial skills and attention. Although improvements were observed in every
one of the cognitive tasks that were trained, no evidence was found for transfer 
effects to untrained tasks, even when those tasks were cognitively closely
related.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09042 
PMCID: PMC2884087
PMID: 20407435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):798-802. doi: 10.1038/nature09027. Epub 2010 Apr
11.

Control of mammary stem cell function by steroid hormone signalling.

Asselin-Labat ML(1), Vaillant F, Sheridan JM, Pal B, Wu D, Simpson ER, Yasuda H, 
Smyth GK, Martin TJ, Lindeman GJ, Visvader JE.

Author information: 
(1)The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, Parkville, Victoria
3052, Australia.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 10;465(7299):695-6.

The ovarian hormones oestrogen and progesterone profoundly influence breast
cancer risk, underpinning the benefit of endocrine therapies in the treatment of 
breast cancer. Modulation of their effects through ovarian ablation or
chemoprevention strategies also significantly decreases breast cancer incidence. 
Conversely, there is an increased risk of breast cancer associated with pregnancy
in the short term. The cellular mechanisms underlying these observations,
however, are poorly defined. Here we demonstrate that mouse mammary stem cells
(MaSCs) are highly responsive to steroid hormone signalling, despite lacking the 
oestrogen and progesterone receptors. Ovariectomy markedly diminished MaSC number
and outgrowth potential in vivo, whereas MaSC activity increased in mice treated 
with oestrogen plus progesterone. Notably, even three weeks of treatment with the
aromatase inhibitor letrozole was sufficient to reduce the MaSC pool. In
contrast, pregnancy led to a transient 11-fold increase in MaSC numbers, probably
mediated through paracrine signalling from RANK ligand. The augmented MaSC pool
indicates a cellular basis for the short-term increase in breast cancer incidence
that accompanies pregnancy. These findings further indicate that breast cancer
chemoprevention may be achieved, in part, through suppression of MaSC function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09027 
PMID: 20383121  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):632-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09083.

Natural allelic variation underlying a major fitness trade-off in Arabidopsis
thaliana.

Todesco M(1), Balasubramanian S, Hu TT, Traw MB, Horton M, Epple P, Kuhns C,
Sureshkumar S, Schwartz C, Lanz C, Laitinen RA, Huang Y, Chory J, Lipka V,
Borevitz JO, Dangl JL, Bergelson J, Nordborg M, Weigel D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Max Planck Institute for Developmental
Biology, 72076 Tübingen, Germany.

Plants can defend themselves against a wide array of enemies, from microbes to
large animals, yet there is great variability in the effectiveness of such
defences, both within and between species. Some of this variation can be
explained by conflicting pressures from pathogens with different modes of attack.
A second explanation comes from an evolutionary 'tug of war', in which pathogens 
adapt to evade detection, until the plant has evolved new recognition
capabilities for pathogen invasion. If selection is, however, sufficiently
strong, susceptible hosts should remain rare. That this is not the case is best
explained by costs incurred from constitutive defences in a pest-free
environment. Using a combination of forward genetics and genome-wide association 
analyses, we demonstrate that allelic diversity at a single locus, ACCELERATED
CELL DEATH 6 (ACD6), underpins marked pleiotropic differences in both vegetative 
growth and resistance to microbial infection and herbivory among natural
Arabidopsis thaliana strains. A hyperactive ACD6 allele, compared to the
reference allele, strongly enhances resistance to a broad range of pathogens from
different phyla, but at the same time slows the production of new leaves and
greatly reduces the biomass of mature leaves. This allele segregates at
intermediate frequency both throughout the worldwide range of A. thaliana and
within local populations, consistent with this allele providing substantial
fitness benefits despite its marked impact on growth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09083 
PMCID: PMC3055268
PMID: 20520716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):622-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09040.

The role of mentorship in protégé performance.

Malmgren RD(1), Ottino JM, Nunes Amaral LA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Northwestern University,
Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA.

The role of mentorship in protégé performance is a matter of importance to
academic, business and governmental organizations. Although the benefits of
mentorship for protégés, mentors and their organizations are apparent, the extent
to which protégés mimic their mentors' career choices and acquire their
mentorship skills is unclear. The importance of a science, technology,
engineering and mathematics workforce to economic growth and the role of
effective mentorship in maintaining a 'healthy' such workforce demand the study
of the role of mentorship in academia. Here we investigate one aspect of mentor
emulation by studying mentorship fecundity-the number of protégés a mentor
trains-using data from the Mathematics Genealogy Project, which tracks the
mentorship record of thousands of mathematicians over several centuries. We
demonstrate that fecundity among academic mathematicians is correlated with other
measures of academic success. We also find that the average fecundity of mentors 
remains stable over 60 years of recorded mentorship. We further discover three
significant correlations in mentorship fecundity. First, mentors with low
mentorship fecundities train protégés that go on to have mentorship fecundities
37% higher than expected. Second, in the first third of their careers, mentors
with high fecundities train protégés that go on to have fecundities 29% higher
than expected. Finally, in the last third of their careers, mentors with high
fecundities train protégés that go on to have fecundities 31% lower than
expected.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09040 
PMID: 20520715  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):617-21. doi: 10.1038/nature09016.

The Ectocarpus genome and the independent evolution of multicellularity in brown 
algae.

Cock JM(1), Sterck L, Rouzé P, Scornet D, Allen AE, Amoutzias G, Anthouard V,
Artiguenave F, Aury JM, Badger JH, Beszteri B, Billiau K, Bonnet E, Bothwell JH, 
Bowler C, Boyen C, Brownlee C, Carrano CJ, Charrier B, Cho GY, Coelho SM, Collén 
J, Corre E, Da Silva C, Delage L, Delaroque N, Dittami SM, Doulbeau S, Elias M,
Farnham G, Gachon CM, Gschloessl B, Heesch S, Jabbari K, Jubin C, Kawai H, Kimura
K, Kloareg B, Küpper FC, Lang D, Le Bail A, Leblanc C, Lerouge P, Lohr M, Lopez
PJ, Martens C, Maumus F, Michel G, Miranda-Saavedra D, Morales J, Moreau H,
Motomura T, Nagasato C, Napoli CA, Nelson DR, Nyvall-Collén P, Peters AF, Pommier
C, Potin P, Poulain J, Quesneville H, Read B, Rensing SA, Ritter A, Rousvoal S,
Samanta M, Samson G, Schroeder DC, Ségurens B, Strittmatter M, Tonon T, Tregear
JW, Valentin K, von Dassow P, Yamagishi T, Van de Peer Y, Wincker P.

Author information: 
(1)UPMC Université Paris 6, The Marine Plants and Biomolecules Laboratory, UMR
7139, Station Biologique de Roscoff, Place Georges Teissier, BP74, 29682 Roscoff 
Cedex, France. cock@sb-roscoff.fr

Brown algae (Phaeophyceae) are complex photosynthetic organisms with a very
different evolutionary history to green plants, to which they are only distantly 
related. These seaweeds are the dominant species in rocky coastal ecosystems and 
they exhibit many interesting adaptations to these, often harsh, environments.
Brown algae are also one of only a small number of eukaryotic lineages that have 
evolved complex multicellularity (Fig. 1). We report the 214 million base pair
(Mbp) genome sequence of the filamentous seaweed Ectocarpus siliculosus (Dillwyn)
Lyngbye, a model organism for brown algae, closely related to the kelps (Fig. 1).
Genome features such as the presence of an extended set of light-harvesting and
pigment biosynthesis genes and new metabolic processes such as halide metabolism 
help explain the ability of this organism to cope with the highly variable tidal 
environment. The evolution of multicellularity in this lineage is correlated with
the presence of a rich array of signal transduction genes. Of particular interest
is the presence of a family of receptor kinases, as the independent evolution of 
related molecules has been linked with the emergence of multicellularity in both 
the animal and green plant lineages. The Ectocarpus genome sequence represents an
important step towards developing this organism as a model species, providing the
possibility to combine genomic and genetic approaches to explore these and other 
aspects of brown algal biology further.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09016 
PMID: 20520714  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):609-12. doi: 10.1038/nature09060.

Population diversity and the portfolio effect in an exploited species.

Schindler DE(1), Hilborn R, Chasco B, Boatright CP, Quinn TP, Rogers LA, Webster 
MS.

Author information: 
(1)School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences, University of Washington, Box 355020, 
Seattle, Washington 98195-5020, USA. deschind@u.washington.edu

One of the most pervasive themes in ecology is that biological diversity
stabilizes ecosystem processes and the services they provide to society, a
concept that has become a common argument for biodiversity conservation.
Species-rich communities are thought to produce more temporally stable ecosystem 
services because of the complementary or independent dynamics among species that 
perform similar ecosystem functions. Such variance dampening within communities
is referred to as a portfolio effect and is analogous to the effects of asset
diversity on the stability of financial portfolios. In ecology, these arguments
have focused on the effects of species diversity on ecosystem stability but have 
not considered the importance of biologically relevant diversity within
individual species. Current rates of population extirpation are probably at least
three orders of magnitude higher than species extinction rates, so there is a
pressing need to clarify how population and life history diversity affect the
performance of individual species in providing important ecosystem services. Here
we use five decades of data from Oncorhynchus nerka (sockeye salmon) in Bristol
Bay, Alaska, to provide the first quantification of portfolio effects that derive
from population and life history diversity in an important and heavily exploited 
species. Variability in annual Bristol Bay salmon returns is 2.2 times lower than
it would be if the system consisted of a single homogenous population rather than
the several hundred discrete populations it currently consists of. Furthermore,
if it were a single homogeneous population, such increased variability would lead
to ten times more frequent fisheries closures. Portfolio effects are also evident
in watershed food webs, where they stabilize and extend predator access to salmon
resources. Our results demonstrate the critical importance of maintaining
population diversity for stabilizing ecosystem services and securing the
economies and livelihoods that depend on them. The reliability of ecosystem
services will erode faster than indicated by species loss alone.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09060 
PMID: 20520713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):606-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09015.

The key nickel enzyme of methanogenesis catalyses the anaerobic oxidation of
methane.

Scheller S(1), Goenrich M, Boecher R, Thauer RK, Jaun B.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Organic Chemistry, ETH Zurich, Wolfgang-Pauli-Str. 10, 8093
Zurich, Switzerland.

Large amounts (estimates range from 70 Tg per year to 300 Tg per year) of the
potent greenhouse gas methane are oxidized to carbon dioxide in marine sediments 
by communities of methanotrophic archaea and sulphate-reducing bacteria, and thus
are prevented from escaping into the atmosphere. Indirect evidence indicates that
the anaerobic oxidation of methane might proceed as the reverse of archaeal
methanogenesis from carbon dioxide with the nickel-containing methyl-coenzyme M
reductase (MCR) as the methane-activating enzyme. However, experiments showing
that MCR can catalyse the endergonic back reaction have been lacking. Here we
report that purified MCR from Methanothermobacter marburgensis converts methane
into methyl-coenzyme M under equilibrium conditions with apparent V(max) (maximum
rate) and K(m) (Michaelis constant) values consistent with the observed in vivo
kinetics of the anaerobic oxidation of methane with sulphate. This result
supports the hypothesis of 'reverse methanogenesis' and is paramount to
understanding the still-unknown mechanism of the last step of methanogenesis. The
ability of MCR to cleave the particularly strong C-H bond of methane without the 
involvement of highly reactive oxygen-derived intermediates is directly relevant 
to catalytic C-H activation, currently an area of great interest in chemistry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09015 
PMID: 20520712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):602-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09064.

Shaping mobile belts by small-scale convection.

Faccenna C(1), Becker TW.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento Scienze Geologiche, University Roma TRE, 00146 Rome Italy.
faccenna@uniroma3.it

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):559.

Mobile belts are long-lived deformation zones composed of an ensemble of crustal 
fragments, distributed over hundreds of kilometres inside continental convergent 
margins. The Mediterranean represents a remarkable example of this tectonic
setting: the region hosts a diffuse boundary between the Nubia and Eurasia plates
comprised of a mosaic of microplates that move and deform independently from the 
overall plate convergence. Surface expressions of Mediterranean tectonics include
deep, subsiding backarc basins, intraplate plateaux and uplifting orogenic belts.
Although the kinematics of the area are now fairly well defined, the dynamical
origins of many of these active features are controversial and usually attributed
to crustal and lithospheric interactions. However, the effects of mantle
convection, well established for continental interiors, should be particularly
relevant in a mobile belt, and modelling may constrain important parameters such 
as slab coherence and lithospheric strength. Here we compute global mantle flow
on the basis of recent, high-resolution seismic tomography to investigate the
role of buoyancy-driven and plate-motion-induced mantle circulation for the
Mediterranean. We show that mantle flow provides an explanation for much of the
observed dynamic topography and microplate motion in the region. More generally, 
vigorous small-scale convection in the uppermost mantle may also underpin other
complex mobile belts such as the North American Cordillera or the
Himalayan-Tibetan collision zone.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09064 
PMID: 20520711 


517. Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):598-601. doi: 10.1038/nature09085.

Ligand exchanges and selective catalytic hydrogenation in molecular single
crystals.

Huang Z(1), White PS, Brookhart M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel
Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.

Chemical reactions inside single crystals are likely to be highly selective, but 
examples of single crystal to single crystal (SC-SC) transformations are
uncommon, because crystallinity is difficult to retain following the
rearrangement of atoms in the solid state. The most widely studied SC-SC
transformations involve solvent exchange reactions in porous coordination
polymers or metal-organic frameworks, which take advantage of the robust
polymeric networks of the hosts. Examples of reactions occurring within molecular
organic crystals generally involve photo-induced reactions, such as the coupling 
of alkenes or alkynes within the crystal. For nonporous molecular inorganic or
organometallic crystals, single-crystal transformations involving the formation
or cleavage of metal-ligand bonds are rare; known examples usually involve ligand
loss from the single crystal and reversible religation, a process sometimes
accompanied by decay of the single crystal to a microcrystalline powder. Here we 
report a series of SC-SC transformations that involve the interchange of multiple
small gaseous ligands (N(2), CO, NH(3), C(2)H(4), H(2) and O(2)) at an iridium
centre in molecular single crystals of a pincer Ir(I) complex. The single crystal
remains intact during these ligand-exchange reactions, which occur within the
crystal and do not require prior ligand extrusion. We reveal a selective
catalytic transformation within a nonporous molecular crystal: pincer iridium
single crystals ligated with nitrogen, ethylene or hydrogen show selective
hydrogenation of ethylene relative to propylene (25:1) when surface sites are
passified by CO.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09085 
PMID: 20520710 


518. Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):594-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09078.

An entangled-light-emitting diode.

Salter CL(1), Stevenson RM, Farrer I, Nicoll CA, Ritchie DA, Shields AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Toshiba Research Europe Limited, 208 Cambridge Science Park, Cambridge CB4
0GZ, UK.

An optical quantum computer, powerful enough to solve problems so far intractable
using conventional digital logic, requires a large number of entangled photons.
At present, entangled-light sources are optically driven with lasers, which are
impractical for quantum computing owing to the bulk and complexity of the optics 
required for large-scale applications. Parametric down-conversion is the most
widely used source of entangled light, and has been used to implement
non-destructive quantum logic gates. However, these sources are Poissonian and
probabilistically emit zero or multiple entangled photon pairs in most cycles,
fundamentally limiting the success probability of quantum computational
operations. These complications can be overcome by using an electrically driven
on-demand source of entangled photon pairs, but so far such a source has not been
produced. Here we report the realization of an electrically driven source of
entangled photon pairs, consisting of a quantum dot embedded in a semiconductor
light-emitting diode (LED) structure. We show that the device emits entangled
photon pairs under d.c. and a.c. injection, the latter achieving an entanglement 
fidelity of up to 0.82. Entangled light with such high fidelity is sufficient for
application in quantum relays, in core components of quantum computing such as
teleportation, and in entanglement swapping. The a.c. operation of the
entangled-light-emitting diode (ELED) indicates its potential function as an
on-demand source without the need for a complicated laser driving system;
consequently, the ELED is at present the best source on which to base future
scalable quantum information applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09078 
PMID: 20520709 


519. Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):590-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09071.

Quantum simulation of frustrated Ising spins with trapped ions.

Kim K(1), Chang MS, Korenblit S, Islam R, Edwards EE, Freericks JK, Lin GD, Duan 
LM, Monroe C.

Author information: 
(1)Joint Quantum Institute, University of Maryland Department of Physics and
National Institute of Standards and Technology, College Park, Maryland 20742,
USA. khkim@umd.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):555-6.

A network is frustrated when competing interactions between nodes prevent each
bond from being satisfied. This compromise is central to the behaviour of many
complex systems, from social and neural networks to protein folding and
magnetism. Frustrated networks have highly degenerate ground states, with excess 
entropy and disorder even at zero temperature. In the case of quantum networks,
frustration can lead to massively entangled ground states, underpinning exotic
materials such as quantum spin liquids and spin glasses. Here we realize a
quantum simulation of frustrated Ising spins in a system of three trapped atomic 
ions, whose interactions are precisely controlled using optical forces. We study 
the ground state of this system as it adiabatically evolves from a transverse
polarized state, and observe that frustration induces extra degeneracy. We also
measure the entanglement in the system, finding a link between frustration and
ground-state entanglement. This experimental system can be scaled to simulate
larger numbers of spins, the ground states of which (for frustrated interactions)
cannot be simulated on a classical computer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09071 
PMID: 20520708 


520. Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):577-83. doi: 10.1038/nature09141.

HIF-1 antagonizes p53-mediated apoptosis through a secreted neuronal tyrosinase.

Sendoel A(1), Kohler I, Fellmann C, Lowe SW, Hengartner MO.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Life Sciences, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):554-5.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2010 Aug;10(8):532-3.

Hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) is a transcription factor that regulates
fundamental cellular processes in response to changes in oxygen concentration.
HIFalpha protein levels are increased in most solid tumours and correlate with
patient prognosis. The link between HIF and apoptosis, a major determinant of
cancer progression and treatment outcome, is poorly understood. Here we show that
Caenorhabditis elegans HIF-1 protects against DNA-damage-induced germ cell
apoptosis by antagonizing the function of CEP-1, the homologue of the tumour
suppressor p53. The antiapoptotic property of HIF-1 is mediated by means of
transcriptional upregulation of the tyrosinase family member TYR-2 in the ASJ
sensory neurons. TYR-2 is secreted by ASJ sensory neurons to antagonize
CEP-1-dependent germline apoptosis. Knock down of the TYR-2 homologue TRP2 (also 
called DCT) in human melanoma cells similarly increases apoptosis, indicating an 
evolutionarily conserved function. Our findings identify a novel link between
hypoxia and programmed cell death, and provide a paradigm for HIF-1 dictating
apoptotic cell fate at a distance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09141 
PMCID: PMC3328299
PMID: 20520707  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):570-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09073.

Imaging the Fano lattice to 'hidden order' transition in URu(2)Si(2).

Schmidt AR(1), Hamidian MH, Wahl P, Meier F, Balatsky AV, Garrett JD, Williams
TJ, Luke GM, Davis JC.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Atomic and Solid State Physics, Department of Physics, Cornell 
University, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):553-4.

Within a Kondo lattice, the strong hybridization between electrons localized in
real space (r-space) and those delocalized in momentum-space (k-space) generates 
exotic electronic states called 'heavy fermions'. In URu(2)Si(2) these effects
begin at temperatures around 55 K but they are suddenly altered by an
unidentified electronic phase transition at T(o) = 17.5 K. Whether this is
conventional ordering of the k-space states, or a change in the hybridization of 
the r-space states at each U atom, is unknown. Here we use spectroscopic imaging 
scanning tunnelling microscopy (SI-STM) to image the evolution of URu(2)Si(2)
electronic structure simultaneously in r-space and k-space. Above T(o), the 'Fano
lattice' electronic structure predicted for Kondo screening of a magnetic lattice
is revealed. Below T(o), a partial energy gap without any associated density-wave
signatures emerges from this Fano lattice. Heavy-quasiparticle interference
imaging within this gap reveals its cause as the rapid splitting below T(o) of a 
light k-space band into two new heavy fermion bands. Thus, the URu(2)Si(2)
'hidden order' state emerges directly from the Fano lattice electronic structure 
and exhibits characteristics, not of a conventional density wave, but of sudden
alterations in both the hybridization at each U atom and the associated heavy
fermion states.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09073 
PMID: 20520706 


522. Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):565-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09101.

Nearby galaxies as pointers to a better theory of cosmic evolution.

Peebles PJ(1), Nusser A.

Author information: 
(1)Joseph Henry Laboratories, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544, 
USA. pjep@princeton.edu

The great advances in the network of cosmological tests show that the
relativistic Big Bang theory is a good description of our expanding Universe.
However, the properties of nearby galaxies that can be observed in greatest
detail suggest that a better theory would describe a mechanism by which matter is
more rapidly gathered into galaxies and groups of galaxies. This more rapid
growth occurs in some theoretical ideas now under discussion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09101 
PMID: 20520705 


523. Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):637-40. doi: 10.1038/nature09021. Epub 2010 May 23.

The folding cooperativity of a protein is controlled by its chain topology.

Shank EA(1), Cecconi C, Dill JW, Marqusee S, Bustamante C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular & Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA.

The three-dimensional structures of proteins often show a modular architecture
comprised of discrete structural regions or domains. Cooperative communication
between these regions is important for catalysis, regulation and efficient
folding; lack of coupling has been implicated in the formation of fibrils and
other misfolding pathologies. How different structural regions of a protein
communicate and contribute to a protein's overall energetics and folding,
however, is still poorly understood. Here we use a single-molecule optical
tweezers approach to induce the selective unfolding of particular regions of T4
lysozyme and monitor the effect on other regions not directly acted on by force. 
We investigate how the topological organization of a protein (the order of
structural elements along the sequence) affects the coupling and folding
cooperativity between its domains. To probe the status of the regions not
directly subjected to force, we determine the free energy changes during
mechanical unfolding using Crooks' fluctuation theorem. We pull on topological
variants (circular permutants) and find that the topological organization of the 
polypeptide chain critically determines the folding cooperativity between domains
and thus what parts of the folding/unfolding landscape are explored. We speculate
that proteins may have evolved to select certain topologies that increase
coupling between regions to avoid areas of the landscape that lead to kinetic
trapping and misfolding.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09021 
PMCID: PMC2911970
PMID: 20495548  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):641-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08974.

A novel and unified two-metal mechanism for DNA cleavage by type II and IA
topoisomerases.

Schmidt BH(1), Burgin AB, Deweese JE, Osheroff N, Berger JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley, 
California 94720, USA.

Type II topoisomerases are required for the management of DNA tangles and
supercoils, and are targets of clinical antibiotics and anti-cancer agents. These
enzymes catalyse the ATP-dependent passage of one DNA duplex (the transport or
T-segment) through a transient, double-stranded break in another (the gate or
G-segment), navigating DNA through the protein using a set of dissociable
internal interfaces, or 'gates'. For more than 20 years, it has been established 
that a pair of dimer-related tyrosines, together with divalent cations, catalyse 
G-segment cleavage. Recent efforts have proposed that strand scission relies on a
'two-metal mechanism', a ubiquitous biochemical strategy that supports vital
cellular processes ranging from DNA synthesis to RNA self-splicing. Here we
present the structure of the DNA-binding and cleavage core of Saccharomyces
cerevisiae topoisomerase II covalently linked to DNA through its active-site
tyrosine at 2.5A resolution, revealing for the first time the organization of a
cleavage-competent type II topoisomerase configuration. Unexpectedly,
metal-soaking experiments indicate that cleavage is catalysed by a novel
variation of the classic two-metal approach. Comparative analyses extend this
scheme to explain how distantly-related type IA topoisomerases cleave
single-stranded DNA, unifying the cleavage mechanisms for these two essential
enzyme families. The structure also highlights a hitherto undiscovered allosteric
relay that actuates a molecular 'trapdoor' to prevent subunit dissociation during
cleavage. This connection illustrates how an indispensable
chromosome-disentangling machine auto-regulates DNA breakage to prevent the
aberrant formation of mutagenic and cytotoxic genomic lesions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08974 
PMCID: PMC2882514
PMID: 20485342  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):645-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09018. Epub 2010 May 12.

Affinity gradients drive copper to cellular destinations.

Banci L(1), Bertini I, Ciofi-Baffoni S, Kozyreva T, Zovo K, Palumaa P.

Author information: 
(1)Magnetic Resonance Center CERM and Department of Chemistry, University of
Florence, Via Luigi Sacconi 6, 50019, Sesto Fiorentino, Florence, Italy.

Copper is an essential trace element for eukaryotes and most prokaryotes.
However, intracellular free copper must be strictly limited because of its toxic 
side effects. Complex systems for copper trafficking evolved to satisfy cellular 
requirements while minimizing toxicity. The factors driving the copper transfer
between protein partners along cellular copper routes are, however, not fully
rationalized. Until now, inconsistent, scattered and incomparable data on the
copper-binding affinities of copper proteins have been reported. Here we
determine, through a unified electrospray ionization mass spectrometry
(ESI-MS)-based strategy, in an environment that mimics the cellular redox milieu,
the apparent Cu(I)-binding affinities for a representative set of intracellular
copper proteins involved in enzymatic redox catalysis, in copper trafficking to
and within various cellular compartments, and in copper storage. The resulting
thermodynamic data show that copper is drawn to the enzymes that require it by
passing from one copper protein site to another, exploiting gradients of
increasing copper-binding affinity. This result complements the finding that fast
copper-transfer pathways require metal-mediated protein-protein interactions and 
therefore protein-protein specific recognition. Together with Cu,Zn-SOD1,
metallothioneins have the highest affinity for copper(I), and may play special
roles in the regulation of cellular copper distribution; however, for kinetic
reasons they cannot demetallate copper enzymes. Our study provides the
thermodynamic basis for the kinetic processes that lead to the distribution of
cellular copper.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09018 
PMID: 20463663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):613-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09020. Epub 2010 May 9.

Experimentally assessing the relative importance of predation and competition as 
agents of selection.

Calsbeek R(1), Cox RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire
03755, USA. ryan.calsbeek@dartmouth.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 14;475(7355):E1-2; discussion E3.

Field experiments that measure natural selection in response to manipulations of 
the selective regime are extremely rare, even in systems where the ecological
basis of adaptation has been studied extensively. The adaptive radiation of
Caribbean Anolis lizards has been studied for decades, leading to precise
predictions about the influence of alternative agents of selection in the wild.
Here we present experimental evidence for the relative importance of two putative
agents of selection in shaping the adaptive landscape for a classic island
radiation. We manipulated whole-island populations of the brown anole lizard,
Anolis sagrei, to measure the relative importance of predation versus competition
as agents of natural selection. We excluded or included bird and snake predators 
across six islands that ranged from low to high population densities of lizards, 
then measured subsequent differences in behaviour and natural selection in each
population. Predators altered the lizards' perching behaviour and increased
mortality, but predation treatments did not alter selection on phenotypic traits.
By contrast, experimentally increasing population density dramatically increased 
the strength of viability selection favouring large body size, long relative limb
length and high running stamina. Our results from A. sagrei are consistent with
the hypothesis that intraspecific competition is more important than predation in
shaping the selective landscape for traits central to the adaptive radiation of
Anolis ecomorphs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09020 
PMID: 20453837  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):584-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09092.

A dicer-independent miRNA biogenesis pathway that requires Ago catalysis.

Cheloufi S(1), Dos Santos CO, Chong MM, Hannon GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Watson School of Biological Sciences, Howard
Hughes Medical Institute, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA.

Comment in
    Genome Biol. 2010;11(6):123.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2010 Jul;11(7):461.

The nucleolytic activity of animal Argonaute proteins is deeply conserved,
despite its having no obvious role in microRNA-directed gene regulation. In mice,
Ago2 (also known as Eif2c2) is uniquely required for viability, and only this
family member retains catalytic competence. To investigate the evolutionary
pressure to conserve Argonaute enzymatic activity, we engineered a mouse with
catalytically inactive Ago2 alleles. Homozygous mutants died shortly after birth 
with an obvious anaemia. Examination of microRNAs and their potential targets
revealed a loss of miR-451, a small RNA important for erythropoiesis. Though this
microRNA is processed by Drosha (also known as Rnasen), its maturation does not
require Dicer. Instead, the pre-miRNA becomes loaded into Ago and is cleaved by
the Ago catalytic centre to generate an intermediate 3' end, which is then
further trimmed. Our findings link the conservation of Argonaute catalysis to a
conserved mechanism of microRNA biogenesis that is important for vertebrate
development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09092 
PMCID: PMC2995450
PMID: 20424607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Nature. 2010 Jun 3;465(7298):627-31. doi: 10.1038/nature08800. Epub 2010 Mar 24.

Genome-wide association study of 107 phenotypes in Arabidopsis thaliana inbred
lines.

Atwell S(1), Huang YS, Vilhjálmsson BJ, Willems G, Horton M, Li Y, Meng D, Platt 
A, Tarone AM, Hu TT, Jiang R, Muliyati NW, Zhang X, Amer MA, Baxter I, Brachi B, 
Chory J, Dean C, Debieu M, de Meaux J, Ecker JR, Faure N, Kniskern JM, Jones JD, 
Michael T, Nemri A, Roux F, Salt DE, Tang C, Todesco M, Traw MB, Weigel D,
Marjoram P, Borevitz JO, Bergelson J, Nordborg M.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Computational Biology, University of Southern California, Los
Angeles, California 90089, USA.

Although pioneered by human geneticists as a potential solution to the
challenging problem of finding the genetic basis of common human diseases,
genome-wide association (GWA) studies have, owing to advances in genotyping and
sequencing technology, become an obvious general approach for studying the
genetics of natural variation and traits of agricultural importance. They are
particularly useful when inbred lines are available, because once these lines
have been genotyped they can be phenotyped multiple times, making it possible (as
well as extremely cost effective) to study many different traits in many
different environments, while replicating the phenotypic measurements to reduce
environmental noise. Here we demonstrate the power of this approach by carrying
out a GWA study of 107 phenotypes in Arabidopsis thaliana, a widely distributed, 
predominantly self-fertilizing model plant known to harbour considerable genetic 
variation for many adaptively important traits. Our results are dramatically
different from those of human GWA studies, in that we identify many common
alleles of major effect, but they are also, in many cases, harder to interpret
because confounding by complex genetics and population structure make it
difficult to distinguish true associations from false. However, a-priori
candidates are significantly over-represented among these associations as well,
making many of them excellent candidates for follow-up experiments. Our study
demonstrates the feasibility of GWA studies in A. thaliana and suggests that the 
approach will be appropriate for many other organisms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08800 
PMCID: PMC3023908
PMID: 20336072  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):492-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09075.

CD95 promotes tumour growth.

Chen L(1), Park SM, Tumanov AV, Hau A, Sawada K, Feig C, Turner JR, Fu YX, Romero
IL, Lengyel E, Peter ME.

Author information: 
(1)The Ben May Department for Cancer Research, The University of Chicago, 924 E
57th Street, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 14;475(7355):254.
    Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):254.
    Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):784.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):433.

CD95 (also called Fas and APO-1) is a prototypical death receptor that regulates 
tissue homeostasis mainly in the immune system through the induction of
apoptosis. During cancer progression CD95 is frequently downregulated or cells
are rendered apoptosis resistant, raising the possibility that loss of CD95 is
part of a mechanism for tumour evasion. However, complete loss of CD95 is rarely 
seen in human cancers and many cancer cells express large quantities of CD95 and 
are highly sensitive to CD95-mediated apoptosis in vitro. Furthermore, cancer
patients frequently have elevated levels of the physiological ligand for CD95,
CD95L. These data raise the possibility that CD95 could actually promote the
growth of tumours through its non-apoptotic activities. Here we show that cancer 
cells in general, regardless of their CD95 apoptosis sensitivity, depend on
constitutive activity of CD95, stimulated by cancer-produced CD95L, for optimal
growth. Consistently, loss of CD95 in mouse models of ovarian cancer and liver
cancer reduces cancer incidence as well as the size of the tumours. The
tumorigenic activity of CD95 is mediated by a pathway involving JNK and Jun.
These results demonstrate that CD95 has a growth-promoting role during
tumorigenesis and indicate that efforts to inhibit its activity rather than to
enhance it should be considered during cancer therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09075 
PMCID: PMC2879093
PMID: 20505730  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):478-82. doi: 10.1038/nature09001.

Embolus extravasation is an alternative mechanism for cerebral microvascular
recanalization.

Lam CK(1), Yoo T, Hiner B, Liu Z, Grutzendler J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, 
Chicago, Ilinois 60611 USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurol. 2010 Aug;6(8):411.

Cerebral microvascular occlusion is a common phenomenon throughout life that
might require greater recognition as a mechanism of brain pathology. Failure to
recanalize microvessels promptly may lead to the disruption of brain circuits and
significant functional deficits. Haemodynamic forces and the fibrinolytic system 
are considered to be the principal mechanisms responsible for recanalization of
occluded cerebral capillaries and terminal arterioles. Here we identify a
previously unrecognized cellular mechanism that may also be critical for this
recanalization. By using high-resolution fixed-tissue microscopy and two-photon
imaging in living mice we observed that a large fraction of microemboli infused
through the internal carotid artery failed to be lysed or washed out within 48 h.
Instead, emboli were found to translocate outside the vessel lumen within 2-7
days, leading to complete re-establishment of blood flow and sparing of the
vessel. Recanalization occurred by a previously unknown mechanism of
microvascular plasticity involving the rapid envelopment of emboli by endothelial
membrane projections that subsequently form a new vessel wall. This was followed 
by the formation of an endothelial opening through which emboli translocated into
the perivascular parenchyma. The rate of embolus extravasation was significantly 
decreased by pharmacological inhibition of matrix metalloproteinase 2/9 activity.
In aged mice, extravasation was markedly delayed, resulting in persistent tissue 
hypoxia, synaptic damage and cell death. Alterations in the efficiency of the
protective mechanism that we have identified may have important implications in
microvascular pathology, stroke recovery and age-related cognitive decline.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09001 
PMCID: PMC2879083
PMID: 20505729  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):473-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09004.

The mutation spectrum revealed by paired genome sequences from a lung cancer
patient.

Lee W(1), Jiang Z, Liu J, Haverty PM, Guan Y, Stinson J, Yue P, Zhang Y, Pant KP,
Bhatt D, Ha C, Johnson S, Kennemer MI, Mohan S, Nazarenko I, Watanabe C, Sparks
AB, Shames DS, Gentleman R, de Sauvage FJ, Stern H, Pandita A, Ballinger DG,
Drmanac R, Modrusan Z, Seshagiri S, Zhang Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, Genentech Inc., South 
San Francisco, California 94080, USA.

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, with
non-small-cell lung carcinomas in smokers being the predominant form of the
disease. Although previous studies have identified important common somatic
mutations in lung cancers, they have primarily focused on a limited set of genes 
and have thus provided a constrained view of the mutational spectrum. Recent
cancer sequencing efforts have used next-generation sequencing technologies to
provide a genome-wide view of mutations in leukaemia, breast cancer and cancer
cell lines. Here we present the complete sequences of a primary lung tumour (60x 
coverage) and adjacent normal tissue (46x). Comparing the two genomes, we
identify a wide variety of somatic variations, including >50,000 high-confidence 
single nucleotide variants. We validated 530 somatic single nucleotide variants
in this tumour, including one in the KRAS proto-oncogene and 391 others in coding
regions, as well as 43 large-scale structural variations. These constitute a
large set of new somatic mutations and yield an estimated 17.7 per megabase
genome-wide somatic mutation rate. Notably, we observe a distinct pattern of
selection against mutations within expressed genes compared to non-expressed
genes and in promoter regions up to 5 kilobases upstream of all protein-coding
genes. Furthermore, we observe a higher rate of amino acid-changing mutations in 
kinase genes. We present a comprehensive view of somatic alterations in a single 
lung tumour, and provide the first evidence, to our knowledge, of distinct
selective pressures present within the tumour environment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09004 
PMID: 20505728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):469-72. doi: 10.1038/nature09068.

Primitive soft-bodied cephalopods from the Cambrian.

Smith MR(1), Caron JB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Toronto, 25
Harbord Street, Toronto, Ontario, M5S 3G5, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):427-8.

The exquisite preservation of soft-bodied animals in Burgess Shale-type deposits 
provides important clues into the early evolution of body plans that emerged
during the Cambrian explosion. Until now, such deposits have remained silent
regarding the early evolution of extant molluscan lineages-in particular the
cephalopods. Nautiloids, traditionally considered basal within the cephalopods,
are generally depicted as evolving from a creeping Cambrian ancestor whose dorsal
shell afforded protection and buoyancy. Although nautiloid-like shells occur from
the Late Cambrian onwards, the fossil record provides little constraint on this
model, or indeed on the early evolution of cephalopods. Here, we reinterpret the 
problematic Middle Cambrian animal Nectocaris pteryx as a primitive (that is,
stem-group), non-mineralized cephalopod, based on new material from the Burgess
Shale. Together with Nectocaris, the problematic Lower Cambrian taxa Petalilium
and (probably) Vetustovermis form a distinctive clade, Nectocarididae,
characterized by an open axial cavity with paired gills, wide lateral fins, a
single pair of long, prehensile tentacles, a pair of non-faceted eyes on short
stalks, and a large, flexible anterior funnel. This clade extends the
cephalopods' fossil record by over 30 million years, and indicates that primitive
cephalopods lacked a mineralized shell, were hyperbenthic, and were presumably
carnivorous. The presence of a funnel suggests that jet propulsion evolved in
cephalopods before the acquisition of a shell. The explosive diversification of
mineralized cephalopods in the Ordovician may have an understated Cambrian
'fuse'.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09068 
PMID: 20505727  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):466-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09019.

A Late Cretaceous ceratopsian dinosaur from Europe with Asian affinities.

Osi A(1), Butler RJ, Weishampel DB.

Author information: 
(1)Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Hungarian Natural History Museum, Research
Group for Paleontology, Ludovika tér 2, Budapest 1083, Hungary.
hungaros@freemail.hu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):431-2.

Ceratopsians (horned dinosaurs) represent a highly diverse and abundant radiation
of non-avian dinosaurs known primarily from the Cretaceous period (65-145 million
years ago). This radiation has been considered to be geographically limited to
Asia and western North America, with only controversial remains reported from
other continents. Here we describe new ceratopsian cranial material from the Late
Cretaceous of Iharkút, Hungary, from a coronosaurian ceratopsian, Ajkaceratops
kozmai. Ajkaceratops is most similar to 'bagaceratopsids' such as Bagaceratops
and Magnirostris, previously known only from Late Cretaceous east Asia. The new
material unambiguously demonstrates that ceratopsians occupied Late Cretaceous
Europe and, when considered with the recent discovery of possible leptoceratopsid
teeth from Sweden, indicates that the clade may have reached Europe on at least
two independent occasions. European Late Cretaceous dinosaur faunas have been
characterized as consisting of a mix of endemic 'relictual' taxa and 'Gondwanan' 
taxa, with typical Asian and North American groups largely absent. Ajkaceratops
demonstrates that this prevailing biogeographical hypothesis is overly simplified
and requires reassessment. Iharkút was part of the western Tethyan archipelago, a
tectonically complex series of island chains between Africa and Europe, and the
occurrence of a coronosaurian ceratopsian in this locality may represent an early
Late Cretaceous 'island-hopping' dispersal across the Tethys Ocean.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09019 
PMID: 20505726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):462-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09052.

First-principles constraints on diffusion in lower-mantle minerals and a weak D''
layer.

Ammann MW(1), Brodholt JP, Wookey J, Dobson DP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University College London, Gower Street, London 
WC1E 6BT, UK. m.ammann@ucl.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):432-3.

Post-perovskite MgSiO(3) is believed to be present in the D'' region of the
Earth's lowermost mantle. Its existence has been used to explain a number of
seismic observations, such as the D'' reflector and the high degree of seismic
anisotropy within the D'' layer. Ionic diffusion in post-perovskite controls its 
viscosity, which in turn controls the thermal and chemical coupling between the
core and the mantle, the development of plumes and the stability of deep chemical
reservoirs. Here we report the use of first-principles methods to calculate
absolute diffusion rates in post-perovskite under the conditions found in the
Earth's lower mantle. We find that the diffusion of Mg(2+) and Si(4+) in
post-perovskite is extremely anisotropic, with almost eight orders of magnitude
difference between the fast and slow directions. If post-perovskite in the D''
layer shows significant lattice-preferred orientation, the fast diffusion
direction will render post-perovskite up to four orders of magnitude weaker than 
perovskite. The presence of weak post-perovskite strongly increases the heat flux
across the core-mantle boundary and alters the geotherm. It also provides an
explanation for laterally varying viscosity in the lowermost mantle, as required 
by long-period geoid models. Moreover, the behaviour of very weak post-perovskite
can reconcile seismic observation of a D'' reflector with recent experiments
showing that the width of the perovskite-to-post-perovskite transition is too
wide to cause sharp reflectors. We suggest that the observed sharp D'' reflector 
is caused by a rapid change in seismic anisotropy. Once sufficient perovskite has
transformed into post-perovskite, post-perovskite becomes interconnected and
strain is partitioned into this weaker phase. At this point, the weaker
post-perovskite will start to deform rapidly, thereby developing a strong
crystallographic texture. We show that the expected seismic contrast between the 
deformed perovskite-plus-post-perovskite assemblage and the overlying isotropic
perovskite-plus-post-perovskite assemblage is consistent with seismic
observations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09052 
PMID: 20505725 


535. Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):458-61. doi: 10.1038/nature09070.

Distinguishing the ultrafast dynamics of spin and orbital moments in solids.

Boeglin C(1), Beaurepaire E, Halté V, López-Flores V, Stamm C, Pontius N, Dürr
HA, Bigot JY.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Physique et de Chimie des Matériaux de Strasbourg, UMR7504, CNRS
et Université de Strasbourg, 23, rue du Loess, 67034 Strasbourg, France.
christine.boeglin@ipcms.u-strasbg.fr

For an isolated quantum particle, such as an electron, the orbital (L) and spin
(S) magnetic moments can change provided that the total angular momentum of the
particle is conserved. In condensed matter, an efficient transfer between L and S
can occur owing to the spin-orbit interaction, which originates in the
relativistic motion of electrons. Disentangling the absolute contributions of the
orbital and spin angular momenta is challenging, however, as any transfer between
the two occurs on femtosecond timescales. Here we investigate such phenomena by
using ultrashort optical laser pulses to change the magnetization of a
ferromagnetic film and then probe its dynamics with circularly polarized
femtosecond X-ray pulses. Our measurements enable us to disentangle the spin and 
orbital components of the magnetic moment, revealing different dynamics for L and
S. We highlight the important role played by the spin-orbit interaction in the
ultrafast laser-induced demagnetization of ferromagnetic films, and show also
that the magneto-crystalline anisotropy energy is an important quantity to
consider in such processes. Our study provides insights into the dynamics in
magnetic systems as well as perspectives for the ultrafast control of information
in magnetic recording media.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09070 
PMID: 20505724 


536. Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):454-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09048.

The magic nature of (132)Sn explored through the single-particle states of
(133)Sn.

Jones KL(1), Adekola AS, Bardayan DW, Blackmon JC, Chae KY, Chipps KA, Cizewski
JA, Erikson L, Harlin C, Hatarik R, Kapler R, Kozub RL, Liang JF, Livesay R, Ma
Z, Moazen BH, Nesaraja CD, Nunes FM, Pain SD, Patterson NP, Shapira D, Shriner JF
Jr, Smith MS, Swan TP, Thomas JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Tennessee, Knoxville,
Tennessee 37996, USA. kgrzywac@utk.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):430-1.

Atomic nuclei have a shell structure in which nuclei with 'magic numbers' of
neutrons and protons are analogous to the noble gases in atomic physics. Only ten
nuclei with the standard magic numbers of both neutrons and protons have so far
been observed. The nuclear shell model is founded on the precept that neutrons
and protons can move as independent particles in orbitals with discrete quantum
numbers, subject to a mean field generated by all the other nucleons. Knowledge
of the properties of single-particle states outside nuclear shell closures in
exotic nuclei is important for a fundamental understanding of nuclear structure
and nucleosynthesis (for example the r-process, which is responsible for the
production of about half of the heavy elements). However, as a result of their
short lifetimes, there is a paucity of knowledge about the nature of
single-particle states outside exotic doubly magic nuclei. Here we measure the
single-particle character of the levels in (133)Sn that lie outside the double
shell closure present at the short-lived nucleus (132)Sn. We use an inverse
kinematics technique that involves the transfer of a single nucleon to the
nucleus. The purity of the measured single-particle states clearly illustrates
the magic nature of (132)Sn.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09048 
PMID: 20505723 


537. Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):450-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09049.

Onset and migration of spiral troughs on Mars revealed by orbital radar.

Smith IB(1), Holt JW.

Author information: 
(1)University of Texas Institute for Geophysics, Jackson School of Geosciences,
Austin, Texas 78758, USA. isaac@ig.utexas.edu

The landscape of the north polar layered deposits of Mars (NPLD) is dominated by 
a pinwheel array of enigmatic spiral troughs. The troughs have intrigued
planetary scientists since the Mariner 9 spacecraft returned the first close-up
image in 1972, but conclusive evidence of their origin has remained elusive.
Debate continues regarding all aspects of the troughs, including the possibility 
that they have migrated, their age in relation to the current NPLD surface, and
whether they are fundamentally erosional or constructional features. The troughs 
are probably related to climatic processes, yet the nature of this relationship
has remained a mystery. Previous data characterizing only the exposed NLPD
surface were insufficient to test these hypotheses. Here we show that the central
spiral troughs initiated after deposition of three-quarters of the NPLD, quickly 
reached a stable morphology and migrated approximately 65 kilometres poleward and
600 metres in altitude over the past two million years or so. Our radar
stratigraphy rules out hypotheses of erosional incision post-dating deposition,
and instead largely validates an early hypothesis for constructional trough
migration with wind transport and atmospheric deposition as dominant processes.
These results provide hard constraints for palaeo-climate models and a new
context for evaluating imagery, spectral data, and now radar sounding data, the
better to understand the link between orbital parameters and climate, the role of
climate in shaping the polar ice of Mars, and eventually, the age of the polar
deposits themselves.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09049 
PMID: 20505722 


538. Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):446-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09050.

The construction of Chasma Boreale on Mars.

Holt JW(1), Fishbaugh KE, Byrne S, Christian S, Tanaka K, Russell PS, Herkenhoff 
KE, Safaeinili A, Putzig NE, Phillips RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Geophysics, Jackson School of Geosciences, University of Texas
at Austin, Austin 78758, Texas, USA. jack@ig.utexas.edu

The polar layered deposits of Mars contain the planet's largest known reservoir
of water ice and the prospect of revealing a detailed Martian palaeoclimate
record, but the mechanisms responsible for the formation of the dominant features
of the north polar layered deposits (NPLD) are unclear, despite decades of
debate. Stratigraphic analyses of the exposed portions of Chasma Boreale-a large 
canyon 500 km long, up to 100 km wide, and nearly 2 km deep-have led most
researchers to favour an erosional process for its formation following initial
NPLD accumulation. Candidate mechanisms include the catastrophic outburst of
water, protracted basal melting, erosional undercutting, aeolian downcutting and 
a combination of these processes. Here we use new data from the Mars
Reconnaissance Orbiter to show that Chasma Boreale is instead a long-lived,
complex feature resulting primarily from non-uniform accumulation of the NPLD.
The initial valley that later became Chasma Boreale was matched by a second,
equally large valley that was completely filled in by subsequent deposition,
leaving no evidence on the surface to indicate its former presence. We further
demonstrate that topography existing before the NPLD began accumulating
influenced successive episodes of deposition and erosion, resulting in most of
the present-day topography. Long-term and large-scale patterns of mass balance
achieved through sedimentary processes, rather than catastrophic events, ice flow
or highly focused erosion, have produced the largest geomorphic anomaly in the
north polar ice of Mars.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09050 
PMID: 20505721 


539. Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):441-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09066.

The architecture of respiratory complex I.

Efremov RG(1), Baradaran R, Sazanov LA.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Mitochondrial Biology Unit, Wellcome Trust/MRC
Building, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0XY, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):428-9.

Complex I is the first enzyme of the respiratory chain and has a central role in 
cellular energy production, coupling electron transfer between NADH and quinone
to proton translocation by an unknown mechanism. Dysfunction of complex I has
been implicated in many human neurodegenerative diseases. We have determined the 
structure of its hydrophilic domain previously. Here, we report the alpha-helical
structure of the membrane domain of complex I from Escherichia coli at 3.9 A
resolution. The antiporter-like subunits NuoL/M/N each contain 14 conserved
transmembrane (TM) helices. Two of them are discontinuous, as in some
transporters. Unexpectedly, subunit NuoL also contains a 110-A long amphipathic
alpha-helix, spanning almost the entire length of the domain. Furthermore, we
have determined the structure of the entire complex I from Thermus thermophilus
at 4.5 A resolution. The L-shaped assembly consists of the alpha-helical model
for the membrane domain, with 63 TM helices, and the known structure of the
hydrophilic domain. The architecture of the complex provides strong clues about
the coupling mechanism: the conformational changes at the interface of the two
main domains may drive the long amphipathic alpha-helix of NuoL in a piston-like 
motion, tilting nearby discontinuous TM helices, resulting in proton
translocation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09066 
PMID: 20505720  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):497-501. doi: 10.1038/nature09023. Epub 2010 May
12.

The PtdIns(3,4)P(2) phosphatase INPP4A is a suppressor of excitotoxic neuronal
death.

Sasaki J(1), Kofuji S, Itoh R, Momiyama T, Takayama K, Murakami H, Chida S, Tsuya
Y, Takasuga S, Eguchi S, Asanuma K, Horie Y, Miura K, Davies EM, Mitchell C,
Yamazaki M, Hirai H, Takenawa T, Suzuki A, Sasaki T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Biology, Akita University Graduate School of Medicine,
Akita 010-8543, Japan. sasakij@med.akita-u.ac.jp

Phosphorylated derivatives of phosphatidylinositol, collectively referred to as
phosphoinositides, occur in the cytoplasmic leaflet of cellular membranes and
regulate activities such as vesicle transport, cytoskeletal reorganization and
signal transduction. Recent studies have indicated an important role for
phosphoinositide metabolism in the aetiology of diseases such as cancer,
diabetes, myopathy and inflammation. Although the biological functions of the
phosphatases that regulate phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate
(PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3)) have been well characterized, little is known about the
functions of the phosphatases regulating the closely related molecule
phosphatidylinositol-3,4-bisphosphate (PtdIns(3,4)P(2)). Here we show that
inositol polyphosphate phosphatase 4A (INPP4A), a PtdIns(3,4)P(2) phosphatase, is
a suppressor of glutamate excitotoxicity in the central nervous system. Targeted 
disruption of the Inpp4a gene in mice leads to neurodegeneration in the striatum,
the input nucleus of the basal ganglia that has a central role in motor and
cognitive behaviours. Notably, Inpp4a(-/-) mice show severe involuntary movement 
disorders. In vitro, Inpp4a gene silencing via short hairpin RNA renders cultured
primary striatal neurons vulnerable to cell death mediated by
N-methyl-d-aspartate-type glutamate receptors (NMDARs). Mechanistically, INPP4A
is found at the postsynaptic density and regulates synaptic NMDAR localization
and NMDAR-mediated excitatory postsynaptic current. Thus, INPP4A protects neurons
from excitotoxic cell death and thereby maintains the functional integrity of the
brain. Our study demonstrates that PtdIns(3,4)P(2), PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) and the
phosphatases acting on them can have distinct regulatory roles, and provides
insight into the unique aspects and physiological significance of PtdIns(3,4)P(2)
metabolism. INPP4A represents, to our knowledge, the first signalling protein
with a function in neurons to suppress excitotoxic cell death. The discovery of a
direct link between PtdIns(3,4)P(2) metabolism and the regulation of
neurodegeneration and involuntary movements may aid the development of new
approaches for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09023 
PMID: 20463662  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


541. Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):487-91. doi: 10.1038/nature08995. Epub 2010 May 5.

Ephrin-B2 regulates VEGFR2 function in developmental and tumour angiogenesis.

Sawamiphak S(1), Seidel S, Essmann CL, Wilkinson GA, Pitulescu ME, Acker T,
Acker-Palmer A.

Author information: 
(1)Frankfurt Institute for Molecular Life Sciences and Institute of Cell Biology 
and Neuroscience, Goethe University Frankfurt, Max-von-Laue-Strasse 9, D-60438
Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

Comment in
    Cancer Cell. 2010 Jun 15;17(6):533-4.

The formation and guidance of specialized endothelial tip cells is essential for 
both developmental and pathological angiogenesis. Notch-1 signalling regulates
the generation of tip cells, which respond to gradients of vascular endothelial
growth factor (VEGF-A). The molecular cues and signalling pathways that control
the guidance of tip cells are poorly understood. Bidirectional signalling by Eph 
receptors and ephrin ligands represents one of the most important guidance cues
involved in axon path finding. Here we show that ephrin-B2 reverse signalling
involving PDZ interactions regulates endothelial tip cell guidance to control
angiogenic sprouting and branching in physiological and pathological
angiogenesis. In vivo, ephrin-B2 PDZ-signalling-deficient mice (ephrin-B2DeltaV) 
exhibit a reduced number of tip cells with fewer filopodial extensions at the
vascular front in the mouse retina. In pathological settings, impaired PDZ
signalling decreases tumour vascularization and growth. Mechanistically, we show 
that ephrin-B2 controls VEGF receptor (VEGFR)-2 internalization and signalling.
Importantly, internalization of VEGFR2 is necessary for activation and downstream
signalling of the receptor and is required for VEGF-induced tip cell filopodial
extension. Together, our results suggest that ephrin-B2 at the tip cell filopodia
regulates the proper spatial activation of VEGFR2 endocytosis and signalling to
direct filopodial extension. Blocking ephrin-B2 reverse signalling may be an
attractive alternative or combinatorial anti-angiogenic therapy strategy to
disrupt VEGFR2 function in tumour angiogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08995 
PMID: 20445540  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):483-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09002.

Ephrin-B2 controls VEGF-induced angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis.

Wang Y(1), Nakayama M, Pitulescu ME, Schmidt TS, Bochenek ML, Sakakibara A, Adams
S, Davy A, Deutsch U, Lüthi U, Barberis A, Benjamin LE, Mäkinen T, Nobes CD,
Adams RH.

Author information: 
(1)Vascular Development Laboratory, Cancer Research UK London Research Institute,
London WC2A 3PX, UK.

Comment in
    Cancer Cell. 2010 Jun 15;17(6):533-4.

In development, tissue regeneration or certain diseases, angiogenic growth leads 
to the expansion of blood vessels and the lymphatic vasculature. This involves
endothelial cell proliferation as well as angiogenic sprouting, in which a subset
of cells, termed tip cells, acquires motile, invasive behaviour and extends
filopodial protrusions. Although it is already appreciated that angiogenesis is
triggered by tissue-derived signals, such as vascular endothelial growth factor
(VEGF) family growth factors, the resulting signalling processes in endothelial
cells are only partly understood. Here we show with genetic experiments in mouse 
and zebrafish that ephrin-B2, a transmembrane ligand for Eph receptor tyrosine
kinases, promotes sprouting behaviour and motility in the angiogenic endothelium.
We link this pro-angiogenic function to a crucial role of ephrin-B2 in the VEGF
signalling pathway, which we have studied in detail for VEGFR3, the receptor for 
VEGF-C. In the absence of ephrin-B2, the internalization of VEGFR3 in cultured
cells and mutant mice is defective, which compromises downstream signal
transduction by the small GTPase Rac1, Akt and the mitogen-activated protein
kinase Erk. Our results show that full VEGFR3 signalling is coupled to receptor
internalization. Ephrin-B2 is a key regulator of this process and thereby
controls angiogenic and lymphangiogenic growth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09002 
PMID: 20445537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):435-40. doi: 10.1038/nature09032. Epub 2010 Apr 28.

G domain dimerization controls dynamin's assembly-stimulated GTPase activity.

Chappie JS(1), Acharya S, Leonard M, Schmid SL, Dyda F.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive 
and Kidney Diseases, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Dynamin is an atypical GTPase that catalyses membrane fission during
clathrin-mediated endocytosis. The mechanisms of dynamin's basal and
assembly-stimulated GTP hydrolysis are unknown, though both are indirectly
influenced by the GTPase effector domain (GED). Here we present the 2.0 A
resolution crystal structure of a human dynamin 1-derived minimal GTPase-GED
fusion protein, which was dimeric in the presence of the transition state mimic
GDP.AlF(4)(-).The structure reveals dynamin's catalytic machinery and explains
how assembly-stimulated GTP hydrolysis is achieved through G domain dimerization.
A sodium ion present in the active site suggests that dynamin uses a cation to
compensate for the developing negative charge in the transition state in the
absence of an arginine finger. Structural comparison to the rat dynamin G domain 
reveals key conformational changes that promote G domain dimerization and
stimulated hydrolysis. The structure of the GTPase-GED fusion protein dimer
provides insight into the mechanisms underlying dynamin-catalysed membrane
fission.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09032 
PMCID: PMC2879890
PMID: 20428113  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):502-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08972. Epub 2010 Apr 28.

Structural basis of oligomerization in the stalk region of dynamin-like MxA.

Gao S(1), von der Malsburg A, Paeschke S, Behlke J, Haller O, Kochs G, Daumke O.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Delbrück-Centrum for Molecular Medicine, Crystallography,
Robert-Rössle-Strasse 10, 13125 Berlin, Germany.

The interferon-inducible dynamin-like myxovirus resistance protein 1 (MxA; also
called MX1) GTPase is a key mediator of cell-autonomous innate immunity against
pathogens such as influenza viruses. MxA partially localizes to COPI-positive
membranes of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment. At 
the point of infection, it redistributes to sites of viral replication and
promotes missorting of essential viral constituents. It has been proposed that
the middle domain and the GTPase effector domain of dynamin-like GTPases
constitute a stalk that mediates oligomerization and transmits conformational
changes from the G domain to the target structure; however, the molecular
architecture of this stalk has remained elusive. Here we report the crystal
structure of the stalk of human MxA, which folds into a four-helical bundle. This
structure tightly oligomerizes in the crystal in a criss-cross pattern involving 
three distinct interfaces and one loop. Mutations in each of these interaction
sites interfere with native assembly, oligomerization, membrane binding and
antiviral activity of MxA. On the basis of these results, we propose a structural
model for dynamin oligomerization and stimulated GTP hydrolysis that is
consistent with previous structural predictions and has functional implications
for all members of the dynamin family.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08972 
PMID: 20428112  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):507-10. doi: 10.1038/nature08870. Epub 2010 Apr 4.

Recognition of a signal peptide by the signal recognition particle.

Janda CY(1), Li J, Oubridge C, Hernández H, Robinson CV, Nagai K.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK.

Targeting of proteins to appropriate subcellular compartments is a crucial
process in all living cells. Secretory and membrane proteins usually contain an
amino-terminal signal peptide, which is recognized by the signal recognition
particle (SRP) when nascent polypeptide chains emerge from the ribosome. The
SRP-ribosome nascent chain complex is then targeted through its GTP-dependent
interaction with SRP receptor to the protein-conducting channel on endoplasmic
reticulum membrane in eukaryotes or plasma membrane in bacteria. A universally
conserved component of SRP (refs 1, 2), SRP54 or its bacterial homologue,
fifty-four homologue (Ffh), binds the signal peptides, which have a highly
divergent sequence divisible into a positively charged n-region, an h-region
commonly containing 8-20 hydrophobic residues and a polar c-region. No structure 
has been reported that exemplifies SRP54 binding of any signal sequence. Here we 
have produced a fusion protein between Sulfolobus solfataricus SRP54 (Ffh) and a 
signal peptide connected via a flexible linker. This fusion protein oligomerizes 
in solution through interaction between the SRP54 and signal peptide moieties
belonging to different chains, and it is functional, as demonstrated by its
ability to bind SRP RNA and SRP receptor FtsY. We present the crystal structure
at 3.5 A resolution of an SRP54-signal peptide complex in the dimer, which
reveals how a signal sequence is recognized by SRP54.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08870 
PMCID: PMC2897128
PMID: 20364120  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):378-81. doi: 10.1038/nature09003.

eIF5 has GDI activity necessary for translational control by eIF2
phosphorylation.

Jennings MD(1), Pavitt GD.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester, Michael Smith Building,
Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PT, UK.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):122.

In protein synthesis initiation, the eukaryotic translation initiation factor
(eIF) 2 (a G protein) functions in its GTP-bound state to deliver initiator
methionyl-tRNA (tRNA(i)(Met)) to the small ribosomal subunit and is necessary for
protein synthesis in all cells. Phosphorylation of eIF2 [eIF2(alphaP)] is
critical for translational control in diverse settings including nutrient
deprivation, viral infection and memory formation. eIF5 functions in start site
selection as a GTPase accelerating protein (GAP) for the eIF2.GTP.tRNA(i)(Met)
ternary complex within the ribosome-bound pre-initiation complex. Here we define 
new regulatory functions of eIF5 in the recycling of eIF2 from its inactive
eIF2.GDP state between successive rounds of translation initiation. First we show
that eIF5 stabilizes the binding of GDP to eIF2 and is therefore a bi-functional 
protein that acts as a GDP dissociation inhibitor (GDI). We find that this
activity is independent of the GAP function and identify conserved residues
within eIF5 that are necessary for this role. Second we show that eIF5 is a
critical component of the eIF2(alphaP) regulatory complex that inhibits the
activity of the guanine-nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) eIF2B. Together our
studies define a new step in the translation initiation pathway, one that is
critical for normal translational controls.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09003 
PMCID: PMC2875157
PMID: 20485439  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):373-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08994.

Myosin II contributes to cell-scale actin network treadmilling through network
disassembly.

Wilson CA(1), Tsuchida MA, Allen GM, Barnhart EL, Applegate KT, Yam PT, Ji L,
Keren K, Danuser G, Theriot JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Crawling locomotion of eukaryotic cells is achieved by a process dependent on the
actin cytoskeleton: protrusion of the leading edge requires assembly of a network
of actin filaments, which must be disassembled at the cell rear for sustained
motility. Although ADF/cofilin proteins have been shown to contribute to actin
disassembly, it is not clear how activity of these locally acting proteins could 
be coordinated over the distance scale of the whole cell. Here we show that
non-muscle myosin II has a direct role in actin network disassembly in crawling
cells. In fish keratocytes undergoing motility, myosin II is concentrated in
regions at the rear with high rates of network disassembly. Activation of myosin 
II by ATP in detergent-extracted cytoskeletons results in rear-localized
disassembly of the actin network. Inhibition of myosin II activity and
stabilization of actin filaments synergistically impede cell motility, suggesting
the existence of two disassembly pathways, one of which requires myosin II
activity. Our results establish the importance of myosin II as an enzyme for
actin network disassembly; we propose that gradual formation and reorganization
of an actomyosin network provides an intrinsic destruction timer, enabling
long-range coordination of actin network treadmilling in motile cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08994 
PMCID: PMC3662466
PMID: 20485438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):368-72. doi: 10.1038/nature08996.

Opposing roles for calcineurin and ATF3 in squamous skin cancer.

Wu X(1), Nguyen BC, Dziunycz P, Chang S, Brooks Y, Lefort K, Hofbauer GF, Dotto
GP.

Author information: 
(1)Cutaneous Biology Research Center, Massachusetts General Hospital,
Charlestown, MA 02129, USA.

Calcineurin inhibitors such as cyclosporin A (CsA) are the mainstay of
immunosuppressive treatment for organ transplant recipients. Squamous cell
carcinoma (SCC) of the skin is a major complication of treatment with these
drugs, with a 65 to 100-fold higher risk than in the normal population. By
contrast, the incidence of basal cell carcinoma (BCC), the other major
keratinocyte-derived tumour of the skin, of melanoma and of internal malignancies
increases to a significantly lesser extent. Here we report that genetic and
pharmacological suppression of calcineurin/nuclear factor of activated T cells
(NFAT) function promotes tumour formation in mouse skin and in xenografts, in
immune compromised mice, of H-ras(V12) (also known as Hras1)-expressing primary
human keratinocytes or keratinocyte-derived SCC cells. Calcineurin/NFAT
inhibition counteracts p53 (also known as TRP53)-dependent cancer cell
senescence, thereby increasing tumorigenic potential. ATF3, a member of the
'enlarged' AP-1 family, is selectively induced by calcineurin/NFAT inhibition,
both under experimental conditions and in clinically occurring tumours, and
increased ATF3 expression accounts for suppression of p53-dependent senescence
and enhanced tumorigenic potential. Thus, intact calcineurin/NFAT signalling is
critically required for p53 and senescence-associated mechanisms that protect
against skin squamous cancer development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08996 
PMCID: PMC3050632
PMID: 20485437  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):359-62. doi: 10.1038/nature09022.

Calcium-dependent protein kinase 1 is an essential regulator of exocytosis in
Toxoplasma.

Lourido S(1), Shuman J, Zhang C, Shokat KM, Hui R, Sibley LD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Microbiology, Washington University School of
Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Calcium-regulated exocytosis is a ubiquitous process in eukaryotes, whereby
secretory vesicles fuse with the plasma membrane and release their contents in
response to an intracellular calcium surge. This process regulates various
cellular functions such as plasma membrane repair in plants and animals, the
discharge of defensive spikes in Paramecium, and the secretion of insulin from
pancreatic cells, immune modulators from lymphocytes, and chemical transmitters
from neurons. In animal cells, serine/threonine kinases including cAMP-dependent 
protein kinase, protein kinase C and calmodulin kinases have been implicated in
calcium-signal transduction leading to regulated secretion. Although plants and
protozoa also regulate secretion by means of intracellular calcium, the method by
which these signals are relayed has not been explained. Here we show that the
Toxoplasma gondii calcium-dependent protein kinase 1 (TgCDPK1) is an essential
regulator of calcium-dependent exocytosis in this opportunistic human pathogen.
Conditional suppression of TgCDPK1 revealed that it controls calcium-dependent
secretion of specialized organelles called micronemes, resulting in a block of
essential phenotypes including parasite motility, host-cell invasion, and egress.
These phenotypes were recapitulated by using a chemical biology approach in which
pyrazolopyrimidine-derived compounds specifically inhibited TgCDPK1 and disrupted
the parasite's life cycle at stages dependent on microneme secretion. Inhibition 
was specific to TgCDPK1, because expression of a resistant mutant kinase reversed
sensitivity to the inhibitor. TgCDPK1 is conserved among apicomplexans and
belongs to a family of kinases shared with plants and ciliates, suggesting that
related CDPKs may have a function in calcium-regulated secretion in other
organisms. Because this kinase family is absent from mammalian hosts, it
represents a validated target that may be exploitable for chemotherapy against T.
gondii and related apicomplexans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09022 
PMCID: PMC2874977
PMID: 20485436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):346-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09074.

Staphylococcus epidermidis Esp inhibits Staphylococcus aureus biofilm formation
and nasal colonization.

Iwase T(1), Uehara Y, Shinji H, Tajima A, Seo H, Takada K, Agata T, Mizunoe Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bacteriology, The Jikei University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
105-8461 Japan. iwase.tadayuki@jikei.ac.jp

Commensal bacteria are known to inhibit pathogen colonization; however, complex
host-microbe and microbe-microbe interactions have made it difficult to gain a
detailed understanding of the mechanisms involved in the inhibition of
colonization. Here we show that the serine protease Esp secreted by a subset of
Staphylococcus epidermidis, a commensal bacterium, inhibits biofilm formation and
nasal colonization by Staphylococcus aureus, a human pathogen. Epidemiological
studies have demonstrated that the presence of Esp-secreting S. epidermidis in
the nasal cavities of human volunteers correlates with the absence of S. aureus. 
Purified Esp inhibits biofilm formation and destroys pre-existing S. aureus
biofilms. Furthermore, Esp enhances the susceptibility of S. aureus in biofilms
to immune system components. In vivo studies have shown that Esp-secreting S.
epidermidis eliminates S. aureus nasal colonization. These findings indicate that
Esp hinders S. aureus colonization in vivo through a novel mechanism of bacterial
interference, which could lead to the development of novel therapeutics to
prevent S. aureus colonization and infection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09074 
PMID: 20485435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):342-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09098.

Climate change and the global malaria recession.

Gething PW(1), Smith DL, Patil AP, Tatem AJ, Snow RW, Hay SI.

Author information: 
(1)Spatial Ecology and Epidemiology Group, Tinbergen Building, Department of
Zoology, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3PS, UK.
peter.gething@zoo.ox.ac.uk

The current and potential future impact of climate change on malaria is of major 
public health interest. The proposed effects of rising global temperatures on the
future spread and intensification of the disease, and on existing malaria
morbidity and mortality rates, substantively influence global health policy. The 
contemporary spatial limits of Plasmodium falciparum malaria and its endemicity
within this range, when compared with comparable historical maps, offer unique
insights into the changing global epidemiology of malaria over the last century. 
It has long been known that the range of malaria has contracted through a century
of economic development and disease control. Here, for the first time, we
quantify this contraction and the global decreases in malaria endemicity since
approximately 1900. We compare the magnitude of these changes to the size of
effects on malaria endemicity proposed under future climate scenarios and
associated with widely used public health interventions. Our findings have two
key and often ignored implications with respect to climate change and malaria.
First, widespread claims that rising mean temperatures have already led to
increases in worldwide malaria morbidity and mortality are largely at odds with
observed decreasing global trends in both its endemicity and geographic extent.
Second, the proposed future effects of rising temperatures on endemicity are at
least one order of magnitude smaller than changes observed since about 1900 and
up to two orders of magnitude smaller than those that can be achieved by the
effective scale-up of key control measures. Predictions of an intensification of 
malaria in a warmer world, based on extrapolated empirical relationships or
biological mechanisms, must be set against a context of a century of warming that
has seen marked global declines in the disease and a substantial weakening of the
global correlation between malaria endemicity and climate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09098 
PMCID: PMC2885436
PMID: 20485434  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):338-41. doi: 10.1038/nature09053.

Reconciling surface plate motions with rapid three-dimensional mantle flow around
a slab edge.

Jadamec MA(1), Billen MI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology, University of California, Davis, California 95616, USA.
majadamec@ucdavis.edu

The direction of tectonic plate motion at the Earth's surface and the flow field 
of the mantle inferred from seismic anisotropy are well correlated globally,
suggesting large-scale coupling between the mantle and the surface plates. The
fit is typically poor at subduction zones, however, where regional observations
of seismic anisotropy suggest that the direction of mantle flow is not parallel
to and may be several times faster than plate motions. Here we present
three-dimensional numerical models of buoyancy-driven deformation with realistic 
slab geometry for the Alaska subduction-transform system and use them to
determine the origin of this regional decoupling of flow. We find that near a
subduction zone edge, mantle flow velocities can have magnitudes of more than ten
times the surface plate motions, whereas surface plate velocities are consistent 
with plate motions and the complex mantle flow field is consistent with
observations from seismic anisotropy. The seismic anisotropy observations
constrain the shape of the eastern slab edge and require non-Newtonian mantle
rheology. The incorporation of the non-Newtonian viscosity results in mantle
viscosities of 10(17) to 10(18) Pa s in regions of high strain rate (10(-12)
s(-1)), and this low viscosity enables the mantle flow field to decouple
partially from the motion of the surface plates. These results imply local rapid 
transport of geochemical signatures through subduction zones and that the
internal deformation of slabs decreases the slab-pull force available to drive
subducting plates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09053 
PMID: 20485433 


553. Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):334-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09043.

Robust warming of the global upper ocean.

Lyman JM(1), Good SA, Gouretski VV, Ishii M, Johnson GC, Palmer MD, Smith DM,
Willis JK.

Author information: 
(1)Joint Institute for Marine and Atmospheric Research, University of Hawaii at
Manoa, Honolulu, Hawaii 96822, USA. john.lyman@noaa.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):304.

A large ( approximately 10(23) J) multi-decadal globally averaged warming signal 
in the upper 300 m of the world's oceans was reported roughly a decade ago and is
attributed to warming associated with anthropogenic greenhouse gases. The
majority of the Earth's total energy uptake during recent decades has occurred in
the upper ocean, but the underlying uncertainties in ocean warming are unclear,
limiting our ability to assess closure of sea-level budgets, the global radiation
imbalance and climate models. For example, several teams have recently produced
different multi-year estimates of the annually averaged global integral of
upper-ocean heat content anomalies (hereafter OHCA curves) or, equivalently, the 
thermosteric sea-level rise. Patterns of interannual variability, in particular, 
differ among methods. Here we examine several sources of uncertainty that
contribute to differences among OHCA curves from 1993 to 2008, focusing on the
difficulties of correcting biases in expendable bathythermograph (XBT) data. XBT 
data constitute the majority of the in situ measurements of upper-ocean heat
content from 1967 to 2002, and we find that the uncertainty due to choice of XBT 
bias correction dominates among-method variability in OHCA curves during our
1993-2008 study period. Accounting for multiple sources of uncertainty, a
composite of several OHCA curves using different XBT bias corrections still
yields a statistically significant linear warming trend for 1993-2008 of 0.64 W
m(-2) (calculated for the Earth's entire surface area), with a 90-per-cent
confidence interval of 0.53-0.75 W m(-2).

DOI: 10.1038/nature09043 
PMID: 20485432 


554. Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):329-33. doi: 10.1038/nature09054.

GaAs photovoltaics and optoelectronics using releasable multilayer epitaxial
assemblies.

Yoon J(1), Jo S, Chun IS, Jung I, Kim HS, Meitl M, Menard E, Li X, Coleman JJ,
Paik U, Rogers JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Beckman Institute for
Advanced Science and Technology, and Frederick Seitz Materials Research
Laboratory, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801,
USA.

Compound semiconductors like gallium arsenide (GaAs) provide advantages over
silicon for many applications, owing to their direct bandgaps and high electron
mobilities. Examples range from efficient photovoltaic devices to radio-frequency
electronics and most forms of optoelectronics. However, growing large, high
quality wafers of these materials, and intimately integrating them on silicon or 
amorphous substrates (such as glass or plastic) is expensive, which restricts
their use. Here we describe materials and fabrication concepts that address many 
of these challenges, through the use of films of GaAs or AlGaAs grown in thick,
multilayer epitaxial assemblies, then separated from each other and distributed
on foreign substrates by printing. This method yields large quantities of high
quality semiconductor material capable of device integration in large area
formats, in a manner that also allows the wafer to be reused for additional
growths. We demonstrate some capabilities of this approach with three different
applications: GaAs-based metal semiconductor field effect transistors and logic
gates on plates of glass, near-infrared imaging devices on wafers of silicon, and
photovoltaic modules on sheets of plastic. These results illustrate the
implementation of compound semiconductors such as GaAs in applications whose cost
structures, formats, area coverages or modes of use are incompatible with
conventional growth or integration strategies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09054 
PMID: 20485431 


555. Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):326-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09055.

A massive star origin for an unusual helium-rich supernova in an elliptical
galaxy.

Kawabata KS(1), Maeda K, Nomoto K, Taubenberger S, Tanaka M, Deng J, Pian E,
Hattori T, Itagaki K.

Author information: 
(1)Hiroshima Astrophysical Science Center, Hiroshima University, 1-3-1
Kagamiyama, Higashi-Hiroshima, Hiroshima 739-8526, Japan.
kawabtkj@hiroshima-u.ac.jp

The unusual helium-rich (type Ib) supernova SN 2005E is distinguished from all
supernovae hitherto observed by its faint and rapidly fading light curve,
prominent calcium lines in late-phase spectra and lack of any mark of recent star
formation near the supernova location. These properties are claimed to be
explained by a helium detonation in a thin surface layer of an accreting white
dwarf. Here we report that the observed properties of SN 2005cz, which appeared
in an elliptical galaxy, resemble those of SN 2005E. We argue that these
properties are best explained by a core-collapse supernova at the low-mass end
(8-12 solar masses) of the range of massive stars that explode. Such a low-mass
progenitor lost its hydrogen-rich envelope through binary interaction, had very
thin oxygen-rich and silicon-rich layers above the collapsing core, and
accordingly ejected a very small amount of radioactive (56)Ni and oxygen.
Although the host galaxy NGC 4589 is an elliptical, some studies have revealed
evidence of recent star-formation activity, consistent with the core-collapse
model.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09055 
PMID: 20485430 


556. Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):322-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09056.

A faint type of supernova from a white dwarf with a helium-rich companion.

Perets HB(1), Gal-Yam A, Mazzali PA, Arnett D, Kagan D, Filippenko AV, Li W,
Arcavi I, Cenko SB, Fox DB, Leonard DC, Moon DS, Sand DJ, Soderberg AM, Anderson 
JP, James PA, Foley RJ, Ganeshalingam M, Ofek EO, Bildsten L, Nelemans G, Shen
KJ, Weinberg NN, Metzger BD, Piro AL, Quataert E, Kiewe M, Poznanski D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Particle Physics and Astrophysics, Faculty of Physics, The
Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel. hperets@cfa.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):303-4.

Supernovae are thought to arise from two different physical processes. The cores 
of massive, short-lived stars undergo gravitational core collapse and typically
eject a few solar masses during their explosion. These are thought to appear as
type Ib/c and type II supernovae, and are associated with young stellar
populations. In contrast, the thermonuclear detonation of a carbon-oxygen white
dwarf, whose mass approaches the Chandrasekhar limit, is thought to produce type 
Ia supernovae. Such supernovae are observed in both young and old stellar
environments. Here we report a faint type Ib supernova, SN 2005E, in the halo of 
the nearby isolated galaxy, NGC 1032. The 'old' environment near the supernova
location, and the very low derived ejected mass ( approximately 0.3 solar
masses), argue strongly against a core-collapse origin. Spectroscopic
observations and analysis reveal high ejecta velocities, dominated by
helium-burning products, probably excluding this as a subluminous or a regular
type Ia supernova. We conclude that it arises from a low-mass, old progenitor,
likely to have been a helium-accreting white dwarf in a binary. The ejecta
contain more calcium than observed in other types of supernovae and probably
large amounts of radioactive (44)Ti.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09056 
PMID: 20485429 


557. Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):311-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09099.

Chemical genetics of Plasmodium falciparum.

Guiguemde WA(1), Shelat AA, Bouck D, Duffy S, Crowther GJ, Davis PH, Smithson DC,
Connelly M, Clark J, Zhu F, Jiménez-Díaz MB, Martinez MS, Wilson EB, Tripathi AK,
Gut J, Sharlow ER, Bathurst I, El Mazouni F, Fowble JW, Forquer I, McGinley PL,
Castro S, Angulo-Barturen I, Ferrer S, Rosenthal PJ, Derisi JL, Sullivan DJ, Lazo
JS, Roos DS, Riscoe MK, Phillips MA, Rathod PK, Van Voorhis WC, Avery VM, Guy RK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Biology and Therapeutics, St Jude Children's Research
Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):297-8.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2010 Jul;9(7):516-7.

Malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum is a disease that is responsible for
880,000 deaths per year worldwide. Vaccine development has proved difficult and
resistance has emerged for most antimalarial drugs. To discover new antimalarial 
chemotypes, we have used a phenotypic forward chemical genetic approach to assay 
309,474 chemicals. Here we disclose structures and biological activity of the
entire library-many of which showed potent in vitro activity against
drug-resistant P. falciparum strains-and detailed profiling of 172 representative
candidates. A reverse chemical genetic study identified 19 new inhibitors of 4
validated drug targets and 15 novel binders among 61 malarial proteins.
Phylochemogenetic profiling in several organisms revealed similarities between
Toxoplasma gondii and mammalian cell lines and dissimilarities between P.
falciparum and related protozoans. One exemplar compound displayed efficacy in a 
murine model. Our findings provide the scientific community with new starting
points for malaria drug discovery.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09099 
PMCID: PMC2874979
PMID: 20485428  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):305-10. doi: 10.1038/nature09107.

Thousands of chemical starting points for antimalarial lead identification.

Gamo FJ(1), Sanz LM, Vidal J, de Cozar C, Alvarez E, Lavandera JL, Vanderwall DE,
Green DV, Kumar V, Hasan S, Brown JR, Peishoff CE, Cardon LR, Garcia-Bustos JF.

Author information: 
(1)Tres Cantos Medicines Development Campus, GlaxoSmithKline, Severo Ochoa 2,
28760 Tres Cantos, Spain.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):297-8.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2010 Jul;9(7):516-7.

Malaria is a devastating infection caused by protozoa of the genus Plasmodium.
Drug resistance is widespread, no new chemical class of antimalarials has been
introduced into clinical practice since 1996 and there is a recent rise of
parasite strains with reduced sensitivity to the newest drugs. We screened nearly
2 million compounds in GlaxoSmithKline's chemical library for inhibitors of P.
falciparum, of which 13,533 were confirmed to inhibit parasite growth by at least
80% at 2 microM concentration. More than 8,000 also showed potent activity
against the multidrug resistant strain Dd2. Most (82%) compounds originate from
internal company projects and are new to the malaria community. Analyses using
historic assay data suggest several novel mechanisms of antimalarial action, such
as inhibition of protein kinases and host-pathogen interaction related targets.
Chemical structures and associated data are hereby made public to encourage
additional drug lead identification efforts and further research into this
disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09107 
PMID: 20485427  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):350-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08997. Epub 2010 May 5.

Effects of thymic selection of the T-cell repertoire on HLA class I-associated
control of HIV infection.

Kosmrlj A(1), Read EL, Qi Y, Allen TM, Altfeld M, Deeks SG, Pereyra F, Carrington
M, Walker BD, Chakraborty AK.

Author information: 
(1)Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT and Harvard, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2010 Jun;10(6):379.

Without therapy, most people infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
ultimately progress to AIDS. Rare individuals ('elite controllers') maintain very
low levels of HIV RNA without therapy, thereby making disease progression and
transmission unlikely. Certain HLA class I alleles are markedly enriched in elite
controllers, with the highest association observed for HLA-B57 (ref. 1). Because 
HLA molecules present viral peptides that activate CD8(+) T cells, an
immune-mediated mechanism is probably responsible for superior control of HIV.
Here we describe how the peptide-binding characteristics of HLA-B57 molecules
affect thymic development such that, compared to other HLA-restricted T cells, a 
larger fraction of the naive repertoire of B57-restricted clones recognizes a
viral epitope, and these T cells are more cross-reactive to mutants of targeted
epitopes. Our calculations predict that such a T-cell repertoire imposes strong
immune pressure on immunodominant HIV epitopes and emergent mutants, thereby
promoting efficient control of the virus. Supporting these predictions, in a
large cohort of HLA-typed individuals, our experiments show that the relative
ability of HLA-B alleles to control HIV correlates with their peptide-binding
characteristics that affect thymic development. Our results provide a conceptual 
framework that unifies diverse empirical observations, and have implications for 
vaccination strategies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08997 
PMCID: PMC3098720
PMID: 20445539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):355-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08970. Epub 2010 May 2.

Modulation of Shigella virulence in response to available oxygen in vivo.

Marteyn B(1), West NP, Browning DF, Cole JA, Shaw JG, Palm F, Mounier J, Prévost 
MC, Sansonetti P, Tang CM.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Molecular Microbiology and Infection, Department of Microbiology,
Flowers Building, Imperial College London, London SW7 2AZ, UK.

Comment in
    Expert Rev Anti Infect Ther. 2010 Nov;8(11):1225-9.

Bacteria coordinate expression of virulence determinants in response to localized
microenvironments in their hosts. Here we show that Shigella flexneri, which
causes dysentery, encounters varying oxygen concentrations in the
gastrointestinal tract, which govern activity of its type three secretion system 
(T3SS). The T3SS is essential for cell invasion and virulence. In anaerobic
environments (for example, the gastrointestinal tract lumen), Shigella is primed 
for invasion and expresses extended T3SS needles while reducing Ipa (invasion
plasmid antigen) effector secretion. This is mediated by FNR (fumarate and
nitrate reduction), a regulator of anaerobic metabolism that represses
transcription of spa32 and spa33, virulence genes that regulate secretion through
the T3SS. We demonstrate there is a zone of relative oxygenation adjacent to the 
gastrointestinal tract mucosa, caused by diffusion from the capillary network at 
the tips of villi. This would reverse the anaerobic block of Ipa secretion,
allowing T3SS activation at its precise site of action, enhancing invasion and
virulence.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08970 
PMCID: PMC3750455
PMID: 20436458  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):363-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08973. Epub 2010 May 2.

A three-dimensional model of the yeast genome.

Duan Z(1), Andronescu M, Schutz K, McIlwain S, Kim YJ, Lee C, Shendure J, Fields 
S, Blau CA, Noble WS.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington 98195-8056, USA.

Layered on top of information conveyed by DNA sequence and chromatin are higher
order structures that encompass portions of chromosomes, entire chromosomes, and 
even whole genomes. Interphase chromosomes are not positioned randomly within the
nucleus, but instead adopt preferred conformations. Disparate DNA elements
co-localize into functionally defined aggregates or 'factories' for transcription
and DNA replication. In budding yeast, Drosophila and many other eukaryotes,
chromosomes adopt a Rabl configuration, with arms extending from centromeres
adjacent to the spindle pole body to telomeres that abut the nuclear envelope.
Nonetheless, the topologies and spatial relationships of chromosomes remain
poorly understood. Here we developed a method to globally capture intra- and
inter-chromosomal interactions, and applied it to generate a map at kilobase
resolution of the haploid genome of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The map
recapitulates known features of genome organization, thereby validating the
method, and identifies new features. Extensive regional and higher order folding 
of individual chromosomes is observed. Chromosome XII exhibits a striking
conformation that implicates the nucleolus as a formidable barrier to interaction
between DNA sequences at either end. Inter-chromosomal contacts are anchored by
centromeres and include interactions among transfer RNA genes, among origins of
early DNA replication and among sites where chromosomal breakpoints occur.
Finally, we constructed a three-dimensional model of the yeast genome. Our
findings provide a glimpse of the interface between the form and function of a
eukaryotic genome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08973 
PMCID: PMC2874121
PMID: 20436457  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):316-21. doi: 10.1038/nature08977. Epub 2010 Apr 21.

Cell signalling by microRNA165/6 directs gene dose-dependent root cell fate.

Carlsbecker A(1), Lee JY, Roberts CJ, Dettmer J, Lehesranta S, Zhou J, Lindgren
O, Moreno-Risueno MA, Vatén A, Thitamadee S, Campilho A, Sebastian J, Bowman JL, 
Helariutta Y, Benfey PN.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biotechnology/Department of Biosciences, University of Helsinki, 
FIN-00014, Finland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 May 20;465(7296):299-300.

A key question in developmental biology is how cells exchange positional
information for proper patterning during organ development. In plant roots the
radial tissue organization is highly conserved with a central vascular cylinder
in which two water conducting cell types, protoxylem and metaxylem, are patterned
centripetally. We show that this patterning occurs through crosstalk between the 
vascular cylinder and the surrounding endodermis mediated by cell-to-cell
movement of a transcription factor in one direction and microRNAs in the other.
SHORT ROOT, produced in the vascular cylinder, moves into the endodermis to
activate SCARECROW. Together these transcription factors activate MIR165a and
MIR166b. Endodermally produced microRNA165/6 then acts to degrade its target
mRNAs encoding class III homeodomain-leucine zipper transcription factors in the 
endodermis and stele periphery. The resulting differential distribution of target
mRNA in the vascular cylinder determines xylem cell types in a dosage-dependent
manner.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08977 
PMCID: PMC2967782
PMID: 20410882  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):239-42. doi: 10.1038/nature08936.

A conserved spider silk domain acts as a molecular switch that controls fibre
assembly.

Hagn F(1), Eisoldt L, Hardy JG, Vendrely C, Coles M, Scheibel T, Kessler H.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Integrated Protein Science (CIPSM), Technische Universität München,
85747 Garching, Germany.

A huge variety of proteins are able to form fibrillar structures, especially at
high protein concentrations. Hence, it is surprising that spider silk proteins
can be stored in a soluble form at high concentrations and transformed into
extremely stable fibres on demand. Silk proteins are reminiscent of amphiphilic
block copolymers containing stretches of polyalanine and glycine-rich polar
elements forming a repetitive core flanked by highly conserved non-repetitive
amino-terminal and carboxy-terminal domains. The N-terminal domain comprises a
secretion signal, but further functions remain unassigned. The C-terminal domain 
was implicated in the control of solubility and fibre formation initiated by
changes in ionic composition and mechanical stimuli known to align the repetitive
sequence elements and promote beta-sheet formation. However, despite recent
structural data, little is known about this remarkable behaviour in molecular
detail. Here we present the solution structure of the C-terminal domain of a
spider dragline silk protein and provide evidence that the structural state of
this domain is essential for controlled switching between the storage and
assembly forms of silk proteins. In addition, the C-terminal domain also has a
role in the alignment of secondary structural features formed by the repetitive
elements in the backbone of spider silk proteins, which is known to be important 
for the mechanical properties of the fibre.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08936 
PMID: 20463741  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):236-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08962.

Self-assembly of spider silk proteins is controlled by a pH-sensitive relay.

Askarieh G(1), Hedhammar M, Nordling K, Saenz A, Casals C, Rising A, Johansson J,
Knight SD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Oslo University, 1033 Blindern, 0315 Oslo, Norway.

Nature's high-performance polymer, spider silk, consists of specific proteins,
spidroins, with repetitive segments flanked by conserved non-repetitive domains. 
Spidroins are stored as a highly concentrated fluid dope. On silk formation,
intermolecular interactions between repeat regions are established that provide
strength and elasticity. How spiders manage to avoid premature spidroin
aggregation before self-assembly is not yet established. A pH drop to 6.3 along
the spider's spinning apparatus, altered salt composition and shear forces are
believed to trigger the conversion to solid silk, but no molecular details are
known. Miniature spidroins consisting of a few repetitive spidroin segments
capped by the carboxy-terminal domain form metre-long silk-like fibres
irrespective of pH. We discovered that incorporation of the amino-terminal domain
of major ampullate spidroin 1 from the dragline of the nursery web spider
Euprosthenops australis (NT) into mini-spidroins enables immediate,
charge-dependent self-assembly at pH values around 6.3, but delays aggregation
above pH 7. The X-ray structure of NT, determined to 1.7 A resolution, shows a
homodimer of dipolar, antiparallel five-helix bundle subunits that lack
homologues. The overall dimeric structure and observed charge distribution of NT 
is expected to be conserved through spider evolution and in all types of
spidroins. Our results indicate a relay-like mechanism through which the
N-terminal domain regulates spidroin assembly by inhibiting precocious
aggregation during storage, and accelerating and directing self-assembly as the
pH is lowered along the spider's silk extrusion duct.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08962 
PMID: 20463740  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):227-30. doi: 10.1038/nature08999.

Induction of tumour immunity by targeted inhibition of nonsense-mediated mRNA
decay.

Pastor F(1), Kolonias D, Giangrande PH, Gilboa E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology & Immunology, Dodson Interdisciplinary
Immunotherapy Institute, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine Miami,
Florida 33134, USA.

The main reason why tumours are not controlled by the immune system is that,
unlike pathogens, they do not express potent tumour rejection antigens (TRAs).
Tumour vaccination aims at stimulating a systemic immune response targeted to,
mostly weak, antigens expressed in the disseminated tumour lesions. Main
challenges in developing effective vaccination protocols are the identification
of potent and broadly expressed TRAs and effective adjuvants to stimulate a
robust and durable immune response. Here we describe an alternative approach in
which the expression of new, and thereby potent, antigens are induced in tumour
cells by inhibiting nonsense-mediated messenger RNA decay (NMD). Small
interfering RNA (siRNA)-mediated inhibition of NMD in tumour cells led to the
expression of new antigenic determinants and their immune-mediated rejection. In 
subcutaneous and metastatic tumour models, tumour-targeted delivery of NMD
factor-specific siRNAs conjugated to oligonucleotide aptamer ligands led to
significant inhibition of tumour growth that was superior to that of vaccination 
with granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF)-expressing
irradiated tumour cells, and could be further enhanced by co-stimulation.
Tumour-targeted NMD inhibition forms the basis of a simple, broadly useful, and
clinically feasible approach to enhance the antigenicity of disseminated tumours 
leading to their immune recognition and rejection. The cell-free chemically
synthesized oligonucleotide backbone of aptamer-siRNAs reduces the risk of
immunogenicity and enhances the feasibility of generating reagents suitable for
clinical use.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08999 
PMCID: PMC3107067
PMID: 20463739  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):219-22. doi: 10.1038/nature09014.

A formal test of the theory of universal common ancestry.

Theobald DL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Brandeis University, Waltham, Massachusetts 01778,
USA. dtheobald@brandeis.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):168-9.
    Nature. 2010 Dec 16;468(7326):E9; discussion E10.

Universal common ancestry (UCA) is a central pillar of modern evolutionary
theory. As first suggested by Darwin, the theory of UCA posits that all extant
terrestrial organisms share a common genetic heritage, each being the
genealogical descendant of a single species from the distant past. The classic
evidence for UCA, although massive, is largely restricted to 'local' common
ancestry-for example, of specific phyla rather than the entirety of life-and has 
yet to fully integrate the recent advances from modern phylogenetics and
probability theory. Although UCA is widely assumed, it has rarely been subjected 
to formal quantitative testing, and this has led to critical commentary
emphasizing the intrinsic technical difficulties in empirically evaluating a
theory of such broad scope. Furthermore, several researchers have proposed that
early life was characterized by rampant horizontal gene transfer, leading some to
question the monophyly of life. Here I provide the first, to my knowledge,
formal, fundamental test of UCA, without assuming that sequence similarity
implies genetic kinship. I test UCA by applying model selection theory to
molecular phylogenies, focusing on a set of ubiquitously conserved proteins that 
are proposed to be orthologous. Among a wide range of biological models involving
the independent ancestry of major taxonomic groups, the model selection tests are
found to overwhelmingly support UCA irrespective of the presence of horizontal
gene transfer and symbiotic fusion events. These results provide powerful
statistical evidence corroborating the monophyly of all known life.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09014 
PMID: 20463738  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):215-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09038.

Ordovician faunas of Burgess Shale type.

Van Roy P(1), Orr PJ, Botting JP, Muir LA, Vinther J, Lefebvre B, el Hariri K,
Briggs DE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, Yale University, PO Box 208109, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA. peter.vanroy@yale.edu

The renowned soft-bodied faunas of the Cambrian period, which include the Burgess
Shale, disappear from the fossil record in the late Middle Cambrian, after which 
the Palaeozoic fauna dominates. The disappearance of faunas of Burgess Shale type
curtails the stratigraphic record of a number of iconic Cambrian taxa. One
possible explanation for this loss is a major extinction, but more probably it
reflects the absence of preservation of similar soft-bodied faunas in later
periods. Here we report the discovery of numerous diverse soft-bodied assemblages
in the Lower and Upper Fezouata Formations (Lower Ordovician) of Morocco, which
include a range of remarkable stem-group morphologies normally considered
characteristic of the Cambrian. It is clear that biotas of Burgess Shale type
persisted after the Cambrian and are preserved where suitable facies occur. The
Fezouata biota provides a link between the Burgess Shale communities and the
early stages of the Great Ordovician Biodiversification Event.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09038 
PMID: 20463737  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):211-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09044.

Long-term stability of global erosion rates and weathering during late-Cenozoic
cooling.

Willenbring JK(1), von Blanckenburg F.

Author information: 
(1)Deutsches GeoForschungsZentrum GFZ, Section 3.4: Earth Surface Geochemistry,
Telegrafenberg, D-14473 Potsdam, Germany. jane.willenbring@sas.upenn.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):169-71.

Over geologic timescales, CO(2) is emitted from the Earth's interior and is
removed from the atmosphere by silicate rock weathering and organic carbon
burial. This balance is thought to have stabilized greenhouse conditions within a
range that ensured habitable conditions. Changes in this balance have been
attributed to changes in topographic relief, where varying rates of continental
rock weathering and erosion are superimposed on fluctuations in organic carbon
burial. Geological strata provide an indirect yet imperfectly preserved record of
this change through changing rates of sedimentation. Widespread observations of a
recent (0-5-Myr) fourfold increase in global sedimentation rates require a global
mechanism to explain them. Accelerated uplift and global cooling have been given 
as possible causes, but because of the links between rates of erosion and the
correlated rate of weathering, an increase in the drawdown of CO(2) that is
predicted to follow may be the cause of global climate change instead. However,
globally, rates of uplift cannot increase everywhere in the way that apparent
sedimentation rates do. Moreover, proxy records of past atmospheric CO(2) provide
no evidence for this large reduction in recent CO(2) concentrations. Here we
question whether this increase in global weathering and erosion actually occurred
and whether the apparent increase in the sedimentation rate is due to
observational biases in the sedimentary record. As evidence, we recast the ocean 
dissolved (10)Be/(9)Be isotope system as a weathering proxy spanning the past
approximately 12 Myr (ref. 14). This proxy indicates stable weathering fluxes
during the late-Cenozoic era. The sum of these observations shows neither clear
evidence for increased erosion nor clear evidence for a pulse in weathered
material to the ocean. We conclude that processes different from an increase in
denudation caused Cenozoic global cooling, and that global cooling had no
profound effect on spatially and temporally averaged weathering rates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09044 
PMID: 20463736 


569. Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):206-10. doi: 10.1038/nature09012.

Molecular robots guided by prescriptive landscapes.

Lund K(1), Manzo AJ, Dabby N, Michelotti N, Johnson-Buck A, Nangreave J, Taylor
S, Pei R, Stojanovic MN, Walter NG, Winfree E, Yan H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Arizona State University, Tempe,
Arizona 85287, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):167-8.

Traditional robots rely for their function on computing, to store internal
representations of their goals and environment and to coordinate sensing and any 
actuation of components required in response. Moving robotics to the
single-molecule level is possible in principle, but requires facing the limited
ability of individual molecules to store complex information and programs. One
strategy to overcome this problem is to use systems that can obtain complex
behaviour from the interaction of simple robots with their environment. A first
step in this direction was the development of DNA walkers, which have developed
from being non-autonomous to being capable of directed but brief motion on
one-dimensional tracks. Here we demonstrate that previously developed random
walkers-so-called molecular spiders that comprise a streptavidin molecule as an
inert 'body' and three deoxyribozymes as catalytic 'legs'-show elementary robotic
behaviour when interacting with a precisely defined environment. Single-molecule 
microscopy observations confirm that such walkers achieve directional movement by
sensing and modifying tracks of substrate molecules laid out on a two-dimensional
DNA origami landscape. When using appropriately designed DNA origami, the
molecular spiders autonomously carry out sequences of actions such as 'start',
'follow', 'turn' and 'stop'. We anticipate that this strategy will result in more
complex robotic behaviour at the molecular level if additional control mechanisms
are incorporated. One example might be interactions between multiple molecular
robots leading to collective behaviour; another might be the ability to read and 
transform secondary cues on the DNA origami landscape as a means of implementing 
Turing-universal algorithmic behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09012 
PMCID: PMC2907518
PMID: 20463735  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):202-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09026.

A proximity-based programmable DNA nanoscale assembly line.

Gu H(1), Chao J, Xiao SJ, Seeman NC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, New York University, New York, New York 10003, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):167-8.

Our ability to synthesize nanometre-scale chemical species, such as nanoparticles
with desired shapes and compositions, offers the exciting prospect of generating 
new functional materials and devices by combining them in a controlled fashion
into larger structures. Self-assembly can achieve this task efficiently, but may 
be subject to thermodynamic and kinetic limitations: reactants, intermediates and
products may collide with each other throughout the assembly time course to
produce non-target species instead of target species. An alternative approach to 
nanoscale assembly uses information-containing molecules such as DNA to control
interactions and thereby minimize unwanted cross-talk between different
components. In principle, this method should allow the stepwise and programmed
construction of target products by linking individually selected nanoscale
components-much as an automobile is built on an assembly line. Here we
demonstrate that a nanoscale assembly line can be realized by the judicious
combination of three known DNA-based modules: a DNA origami tile that provides a 
framework and track for the assembly process, cassettes containing three
independently controlled two-state DNA machines that serve as programmable
cargo-donating devices and are attached in series to the tile, and a DNA walker
that can move on the track from device to device and collect cargo. As the walker
traverses the pathway prescribed by the origami tile track, it sequentially
encounters the three DNA devices, each of which can be independently switched
between an 'ON' state, allowing its cargo to be transferred to the walker, and an
'OFF' state, in which no transfer occurs. We use three different types of gold
nanoparticle species as cargo and show that the experimental system does indeed
allow the controlled fabrication of the eight different products that can be
obtained with three two-state devices.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09026 
PMCID: PMC2872101
PMID: 20463734  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):197-201. doi: 10.1038/nature09036.

Time-resolved observation of coherent multi-body interactions in quantum phase
revivals.

Will S(1), Best T, Schneider U, Hackermüller L, Lühmann DS, Bloch I.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Physik, Johannes Gutenberg-Universität, 55099 Mainz, Germany.
sebastian.will@lmu.de

Interactions lie at the heart of correlated many-body quantum phases. Typically, 
the interactions between microscopic particles are described as two-body
interactions. However, it has been shown that higher-order multi-body
interactions could give rise to novel quantum phases with intriguing properties. 
So far, multi-body interactions have been observed as inelastic loss resonances
in three- and four-body recombinations of atom-atom and atom-molecule collisions.
Here we demonstrate the presence of effective multi-body interactions in a system
of ultracold bosonic atoms in a three-dimensional optical lattice, emerging
through virtual transitions of particles from the lowest energy band to higher
energy bands. We observe such interactions up to the six-body case in
time-resolved traces of quantum phase revivals, using an atom interferometric
technique that allows us to precisely measure the absolute energies of atom
number states at a lattice site. In addition, we show that the spectral content
of these time traces can reveal the atom number statistics at a lattice site,
similar to foundational experiments in cavity quantum electrodynamics that yield 
the statistics of a cavity photon field. Our precision measurement of multi-body 
interaction energies provides crucial input for the comparison of optical-lattice
quantum simulators with many-body quantum theory.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09036 
PMID: 20463733 


572. Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):194-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09045.

A white dwarf cooling age of 8 Gyr for NGC 6791 from physical separation
processes.

García-Berro E(1), Torres S, Althaus LG, Renedo I, Lorén-Aguilar P, Córsico AH,
Rohrmann RD, Salaris M, Isern J.

Author information: 
(1)Departament de Física Aplicada, Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya, c/Esteve
Terrades 5, 08860 Castelldefels, Spain. garcia@fa.upc.edu

NGC 6791 is a well studied open cluster that it is so close to us that can be
imaged down to very faint luminosities. The main-sequence turn-off age (
approximately 8 Gyr) and the age derived from the termination of the white dwarf 
cooling sequence ( approximately 6 Gyr) are very different. One possible
explanation is that as white dwarfs cool, one of the ashes of helium burning,
(22)Ne, sinks in the deep interior of these stars. At lower temperatures, white
dwarfs are expected to crystallize and phase separation of the main constituents 
of the core of a typical white dwarf ((12)C and (16)O) is expected to occur. This
sequence of events is expected to introduce long delays in the cooling times, but
has not hitherto been proven. Here we report that, as theoretically anticipated, 
physical separation processes occur in the cores of white dwarfs, resolving the
age discrepancy for NGC 6791.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09045 
PMID: 20463732 


573. Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):188-93. doi: 10.1038/nature09057.

Single-molecule dynamics of gating in a neurotransmitter transporter homologue.

Zhao Y(1), Terry D, Shi L, Weinstein H, Blanchard SC, Javitch JA.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular Recognition, Columbia University College of Physicians
and Surgeons, 630 W. 168th, New York, New York 10032, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):171-2.

Neurotransmitter:Na(+) symporters (NSS) remove neurotransmitters from the synapse
in a reuptake process that is driven by the Na(+) gradient. Drugs that interfere 
with this reuptake mechanism, such as cocaine and antidepressants, profoundly
influence behaviour and mood. To probe the nature of the conformational changes
that are associated with substrate binding and transport, we have developed a
single-molecule fluorescence imaging assay and combined it with functional and
computational studies of the prokaryotic NSS homologue LeuT. Here we show
molecular details of the modulation of intracellular gating of LeuT by substrates
and inhibitors, as well as by mutations that alter binding, transport or both.
Our direct observations of single-molecule transitions, reflecting structural
dynamics of the intracellular region of the transporter that might be masked by
ensemble averaging or suppressed under crystallographic conditions, are
interpreted in the context of an allosteric mechanism that couples ion and
substrate binding to transport.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09057 
PMCID: PMC2940119
PMID: 20463731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):243-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08966. Epub 2010 May 2.

Histone H2A deubiquitinase activity of the Polycomb repressive complex PR-DUB.

Scheuermann JC(1), de Ayala Alonso AG, Oktaba K, Ly-Hartig N, McGinty RK,
Fraterman S, Wilm M, Muir TW, Müller J.

Author information: 
(1)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Meyerhofstrasse 1, 69117 Heidelberg,
Germany.

Comment in
    Dev Cell. 2010 Jun 15;18(6):878-80.

Polycomb group (PcG) proteins are transcriptional repressors that control
processes ranging from the maintenance of cell fate decisions and stem cell
pluripotency in animals to the control of flowering time in plants. In
Drosophila, genetic studies identified more than 15 different PcG proteins that
are required to repress homeotic (HOX) and other developmental regulator genes in
cells where they must stay inactive. Biochemical analyses established that these 
PcG proteins exist in distinct multiprotein complexes that bind to and modify
chromatin of target genes. Among those, Polycomb repressive complex 1 (PRC1) and 
the related dRing-associated factors (dRAF) complex contain an E3 ligase activity
for monoubiquitination of histone H2A (refs 1-4). Here we show that the
uncharacterized Drosophila PcG gene calypso encodes the ubiquitin
carboxy-terminal hydrolase BAP1. Biochemically purified Calypso exists in a
complex with the PcG protein ASX, and this complex, named Polycomb repressive
deubiquitinase (PR-DUB), is bound at PcG target genes in Drosophila.
Reconstituted recombinant Drosophila and human PR-DUB complexes remove
monoubiquitin from H2A but not from H2B in nucleosomes. Drosophila mutants
lacking PR-DUB show a strong increase in the levels of monoubiquitinated H2A. A
mutation that disrupts the catalytic activity of Calypso, or absence of the ASX
subunit abolishes H2A deubiquitination in vitro and HOX gene repression in vivo. 
Polycomb gene silencing may thus entail a dynamic balance between H2A
ubiquitination by PRC1 and dRAF, and H2A deubiquitination by PR-DUB.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08966 
PMCID: PMC3182123
PMID: 20436459  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):223-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08971. Epub 2010 Apr 28.

Mutations of optineurin in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

Maruyama H(1), Morino H, Ito H, Izumi Y, Kato H, Watanabe Y, Kinoshita Y, Kamada 
M, Nodera H, Suzuki H, Komure O, Matsuura S, Kobatake K, Morimoto N, Abe K,
Suzuki N, Aoki M, Kawata A, Hirai T, Kato T, Ogasawara K, Hirano A, Takumi T,
Kusaka H, Hagiwara K, Kaji R, Kawakami H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Research Institute for Radiation Biology and
Medicine, Hiroshima University, Hiroshima 734-8553, Japan.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) has its onset in middle age and is a
progressive disorder characterized by degeneration of motor neurons of the
primary motor cortex, brainstem and spinal cord. Most cases of ALS are sporadic, 
but about 10% are familial. Genes known to cause classic familial ALS (FALS) are 
superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), ANG encoding angiogenin, TARDP encoding
transactive response (TAR) DNA-binding protein TDP-43 (ref. 4) and fused in
sarcoma/translated in liposarcoma (FUS, also known as TLS). However, these
genetic defects occur in only about 20-30% of cases of FALS, and most genes
causing FALS are unknown. Here we show that there are mutations in the gene
encoding optineurin (OPTN), earlier reported to be a causative gene of primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG), in patients with ALS. We found three types of
mutation of OPTN: a homozygous deletion of exon 5, a homozygous Q398X nonsense
mutation and a heterozygous E478G missense mutation within its ubiquitin-binding 
domain. Analysis of cell transfection showed that the nonsense and missense
mutations of OPTN abolished the inhibition of activation of nuclear factor kappa 
B (NF-kappaB), and the E478G mutation revealed a cytoplasmic distribution
different from that of the wild type or a POAG mutation. A case with the E478G
mutation showed OPTN-immunoreactive cytoplasmic inclusions. Furthermore, TDP-43- 
or SOD1-positive inclusions of sporadic and SOD1 cases of ALS were also
noticeably immunolabelled by anti-OPTN antibodies. Our findings strongly suggest 
that OPTN is involved in the pathogenesis of ALS. They also indicate that
NF-kappaB inhibitors could be used to treat ALS and that transgenic mice bearing 
various mutations of OPTN will be relevant in developing new drugs for this
disorder.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08971 
PMID: 20428114  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):248-51. doi: 10.1038/nature08993. Epub 2010 Apr 25.

Stepwise [FeFe]-hydrogenase H-cluster assembly revealed in the structure of
HydA(DeltaEFG).

Mulder DW(1), Boyd ES, Sarma R, Lange RK, Endrizzi JA, Broderick JB, Peters JW.

Author information: 
(1)Astrobiology Biogeocatalysis Research Center, Montana State University,
Bozeman, Montana 59717, USA.

Complex enzymes containing Fe-S clusters are ubiquitous in nature, where they are
involved in a number of fundamental processes including carbon dioxide fixation, 
nitrogen fixation and hydrogen metabolism. Hydrogen metabolism is facilitated by 
the activity of three evolutionarily and structurally unrelated enzymes: the
[NiFe]-hydrogenases, [FeFe]-hydrogenases and [Fe]-hydrogenases (Hmd). The
catalytic core of the [FeFe]-hydrogenase (HydA), termed the H-cluster, exists as 
a [4Fe-4S] subcluster linked by a cysteine thiolate to a modified 2Fe subcluster 
with unique non-protein ligands. The 2Fe subcluster and non-protein ligands are
synthesized by the hydrogenase maturation enzymes HydE, HydF and HydG; however,
the mechanism, synthesis and means of insertion of H-cluster components remain
unclear. Here we show the structure of HydA(DeltaEFG) (HydA expressed in a
genetic background devoid of the active site H-cluster biosynthetic genes hydE,
hydF and hydG) revealing the presence of a [4Fe-4S] cluster and an open pocket
for the 2Fe subcluster. The structure indicates that H-cluster synthesis occurs
in a stepwise manner, first with synthesis and insertion of the [4Fe-4S]
subcluster by generalized host-cell machinery and then with synthesis and
insertion of the 2Fe subcluster by specialized hydE-, hydF- and hydG-encoded
maturation machinery. Insertion of the 2Fe subcluster presumably occurs through a
cationically charged channel that collapses following incorporation, as a result 
of conformational changes in two conserved loop regions. The structure, together 
with phylogenetic analysis, indicates that HydA emerged within bacteria most
likely from a Nar1-like ancestor lacking the 2Fe subcluster, and that this was
followed by acquisition in several unicellular eukaryotes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08993 
PMID: 20418861  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):175-81. doi: 10.1038/nature09017. Epub 2010 Apr 25.

Aberrant silencing of imprinted genes on chromosome 12qF1 in mouse induced
pluripotent stem cells.

Stadtfeld M(1), Apostolou E, Akutsu H, Fukuda A, Follett P, Natesan S, Kono T,
Shioda T, Hochedlinger K.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute at Massachusetts General Hospital, Center for 
Regenerative Medicine; Harvard Stem Cell Institute, 185 Cambridge Street, Boston,
Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) have been generated by enforced expression
of defined sets of transcription factors in somatic cells. It remains
controversial whether iPSCs are molecularly and functionally equivalent to
blastocyst-derived embryonic stem (ES) cells. By comparing genetically identical 
mouse ES cells and iPSCs, we show here that their overall messenger RNA and
microRNA expression patterns are indistinguishable with the exception of a few
transcripts encoded within the imprinted Dlk1-Dio3 gene cluster on chromosome
12qF1, which were aberrantly silenced in most of the iPSC clones. Consistent with
a developmental role of the Dlk1-Dio3 gene cluster, these iPSC clones contributed
poorly to chimaeras and failed to support the development of entirely
iPSC-derived animals ('all-iPSC mice'). In contrast, iPSC clones with normal
expression of the Dlk1-Dio3 cluster contributed to high-grade chimaeras and
generated viable all-iPSC mice. Notably, treatment of an iPSC clone that had
silenced Dlk1-Dio3 with a histone deacetylase inhibitor reactivated the locus and
rescued its ability to support full-term development of all-iPSC mice. Thus, the 
expression state of a single imprinted gene cluster seems to distinguish most
murine iPSCs from ES cells and allows for the prospective identification of iPSC 
clones that have the full development potential of ES cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09017 
PMCID: PMC3987905
PMID: 20418860  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):231-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08964. Epub 2010 Apr 18.

Native GABA(B) receptors are heteromultimers with a family of auxiliary subunits.

Schwenk J(1), Metz M, Zolles G, Turecek R, Fritzius T, Bildl W, Tarusawa E, Kulik
A, Unger A, Ivankova K, Seddik R, Tiao JY, Rajalu M, Trojanova J, Rohde V,
Gassmann M, Schulte U, Fakler B, Bettler B.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiology II, University of Freiburg, Engesserstrasse 4, 79108
Freiburg, Germany.

GABA(B) receptors are the G-protein-coupled receptors for gamma-aminobutyric acid
(GABA), the main inhibitory neurotransmitter in the brain. They are expressed in 
almost all neurons of the brain, where they regulate synaptic transmission and
signal propagation by controlling the activity of voltage-gated calcium (Ca(v))
and inward-rectifier potassium (K(ir)) channels. Molecular cloning revealed that 
functional GABA(B) receptors are formed by the heteromeric assembly of GABA(B1)
with GABA(B2) subunits. However, cloned GABA(B(1,2)) receptors failed to
reproduce the functional diversity observed with native GABA(B) receptors. Here
we show by functional proteomics that GABA(B) receptors in the brain are
high-molecular-mass complexes of GABA(B1), GABA(B2) and members of a subfamily of
the KCTD (potassium channel tetramerization domain-containing) proteins. KCTD
proteins 8, 12, 12b and 16 show distinct expression profiles in the brain and
associate tightly with the carboxy terminus of GABA(B2) as tetramers. This
co-assembly changes the properties of the GABA(B(1,2)) core receptor: the KCTD
proteins increase agonist potency and markedly alter the G-protein signalling of 
the receptors by accelerating onset and promoting desensitization in a
KCTD-subtype-specific manner. Taken together, our results establish the KCTD
proteins as auxiliary subunits of GABA(B) receptors that determine the
pharmacology and kinetics of the receptor response.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08964 
PMID: 20400944  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):182-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09033. Epub 2010 Apr 14.

Widespread transcription at neuronal activity-regulated enhancers.

Kim TK(1), Hemberg M, Gray JM, Costa AM, Bear DM, Wu J, Harmin DA, Laptewicz M,
Barbara-Haley K, Kuersten S, Markenscoff-Papadimitriou E, Kuhl D, Bito H, Worley 
PF, Kreiman G, Greenberg ME.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, 220 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 May 13;465(7295):173-4.

We used genome-wide sequencing methods to study stimulus-dependent enhancer
function in mouse cortical neurons. We identified approximately 12,000 neuronal
activity-regulated enhancers that are bound by the general transcriptional
co-activator CBP in an activity-dependent manner. A function of CBP at enhancers 
may be to recruit RNA polymerase II (RNAPII), as we also observed
activity-regulated RNAPII binding to thousands of enhancers. Notably, RNAPII at
enhancers transcribes bi-directionally a novel class of enhancer RNAs (eRNAs)
within enhancer domains defined by the presence of histone H3 monomethylated at
lysine 4. The level of eRNA expression at neuronal enhancers positively
correlates with the level of messenger RNA synthesis at nearby genes, suggesting 
that eRNA synthesis occurs specifically at enhancers that are actively engaged in
promoting mRNA synthesis. These findings reveal that a widespread mechanism of
enhancer activation involves RNAPII binding and eRNA synthesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09033 
PMCID: PMC3020079
PMID: 20393465  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):78-81. doi: 10.1038/nature09062.

Seismic and aseismic slip on the central Peru megathrust.

Perfettini H(1), Avouac JP, Tavera H, Kositsky A, Nocquet JM, Bondoux F, Chlieh
M, Sladen A, Audin L, Farber DL, Soler P.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Recherche pour le Développement, 44 Boulevard de Dunkerque, 13572 
Marseille cedex 02, France. hugo.perfettini@ird.fr

Slip on a subduction megathrust can be seismic or aseismic, with the two modes of
slip complementing each other in time and space to accommodate the long-term
plate motions. Although slip is almost purely aseismic at depths greater than
about 40 km, heterogeneous surface strain suggests that both modes of slip occur 
at shallower depths, with aseismic slip resulting from steady or transient creep 
in the interseismic and postseismic periods. Thus, active faults seem to comprise
areas that slip mostly during earthquakes, and areas that mostly slip
aseismically. The size, location and frequency of earthquakes that a megathrust
can generate thus depend on where and when aseismic creep is taking place, and
what fraction of the long-term slip rate it accounts for. Here we address this
issue by focusing on the central Peru megathrust. We show that the Pisco
earthquake, with moment magnitude M(w) = 8.0, ruptured two asperities within a
patch that had remained locked in the interseismic period, and triggered aseismic
frictional afterslip on two adjacent patches. The most prominent patch of
afterslip coincides with the subducting Nazca ridge, an area also characterized
by low interseismic coupling, which seems to have repeatedly acted as a barrier
to seismic rupture propagation in the past. The seismogenic portion of the
megathrust thus appears to be composed of interfingering rate-weakening and
rate-strengthening patches. The rate-strengthening patches contribute to a high
proportion of aseismic slip, and determine the extent and frequency of large
interplate earthquakes. Aseismic slip accounts for as much as 50-70% of the slip 
budget on the seismogenic portion of the megathrust in central Peru, and the
return period of earthquakes with M(w) = 8.0 in the Pisco area is estimated to be
250 years.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09062 
PMID: 20445628 


581. Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):74-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09010.

Fast torsional waves and strong magnetic field within the Earth's core.

Gillet N(1), Jault D, Canet E, Fournier A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Géophysique Interne et Tectonophysique, CNRS, Université Joseph
Fourier, BP 53, 38041 Grenoble cedex 9, France.
nicolas.gillet@obs.ujf-grenoble.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):39-40.

The magnetic field inside the Earth's fluid and electrically conducting outer
core cannot be directly probed. The root-mean-squared (r.m.s.) intensity for the 
resolved part of the radial magnetic field at the core-mantle boundary is 0.3 mT,
but further assumptions are needed to infer the strength of the field inside the 
core. Recent diagnostics obtained from numerical geodynamo models indicate that
the magnitude of the dipole field at the surface of a fluid dynamo is about ten
times weaker than the r.m.s. field strength in its interior, which would yield an
intensity of the order of several millitesla within the Earth's core. However, a 
60-year signal found in the variation in the length of day has long been
associated with magneto-hydrodynamic torsional waves carried by a much weaker
internal field. According to these studies, the r.m.s. strength of the field in
the cylindrical radial direction (calculated for all length scales) is only 0.2
mT, a figure even smaller than the r.m.s. strength of the large-scale (spherical 
harmonic degree n <or= 13) field visible at the core-mantle boundary. Here we
reconcile numerical geodynamo models with studies of geostrophic motions in the
Earth's core that rely on geomagnetic data. From an ensemble inversion of core
flow models, we find a torsional wave recurring every six years, the angular
momentum of which accounts well for both the phase and the amplitude of the
six-year signal for change in length of day detected over the second half of the 
twentieth century. It takes about four years for the wave to propagate throughout
the fluid outer core, and this travel time translates into a slowness for Alfvén 
waves that corresponds to a r.m.s. field strength in the cylindrical radial
direction of approximately 2 mT. Assuming isotropy, this yields a r.m.s. field
strength of 4 mT inside the Earth's core.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09010 
PMID: 20445627 


582. Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):69-73. doi: 10.1038/nature09024.

Designed biomaterials to mimic the mechanical properties of muscles.

Lv S(1), Dudek DM, Cao Y, Balamurali MM, Gosline J, Li H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British
Columbia V6T 1Z1, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):44-5.

The passive elasticity of muscle is largely governed by the I-band part of the
giant muscle protein titin, a complex molecular spring composed of a series of
individually folded immunoglobulin-like domains as well as largely unstructured
unique sequences. These mechanical elements have distinct mechanical properties, 
and when combined, they provide the desired passive elastic properties of muscle,
which are a unique combination of strength, extensibility and resilience.
Single-molecule atomic force microscopy (AFM) studies demonstrated that the
macroscopic behaviour of titin in intact myofibrils can be reconstituted by
combining the mechanical properties of these mechanical elements measured at the 
single-molecule level. Here we report artificial elastomeric proteins that mimic 
the molecular architecture of titin through the combination of well-characterized
protein domains GB1 and resilin. We show that these artificial elastomeric
proteins can be photochemically crosslinked and cast into solid biomaterials.
These biomaterials behave as rubber-like materials showing high resilience at low
strain and as shock-absorber-like materials at high strain by effectively
dissipating energy. These properties are comparable to the passive elastic
properties of muscles within the physiological range of sarcomere length and so
these materials represent a new muscle-mimetic biomaterial. The mechanical
properties of these biomaterials can be fine-tuned by adjusting the composition
of the elastomeric proteins, providing the opportunity to develop biomaterials
that are mimetic of different types of muscles. We anticipate that these
biomaterials will find applications in tissue engineering as scaffold and matrix 
for artificial muscles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09024 
PMID: 20445626  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):64-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09035.

Phase-preserving amplification near the quantum limit with a Josephson ring
modulator.

Bergeal N(1), Schackert F, Metcalfe M, Vijay R, Manucharyan VE, Frunzio L, Prober
DE, Schoelkopf RJ, Girvin SM, Devoret MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Applied Physics, Yale University, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520-8284, USA. nicolas.bergeal@espci.fr

Recent progress in solid-state quantum information processing has stimulated the 
search for amplifiers and frequency converters with quantum-limited performance
in the microwave range. Depending on the gain applied to the quadratures of a
single spatial and temporal mode of the electromagnetic field, linear amplifiers 
can be classified into two categories (phase sensitive and phase preserving) with
fundamentally different noise properties. Phase-sensitive amplifiers use
squeezing to reduce the quantum noise, but are useful only in cases in which a
reference phase is attached to the signal, such as in homodyne detection. A
phase-preserving amplifier would be preferable in many applications, but such
devices have not been available until now. Here we experimentally realize a
proposal for an intrinsically phase-preserving, superconducting parametric
amplifier of non-degenerate type. It is based on a Josephson ring modulator,
which consists of four Josephson junctions in a Wheatstone bridge configuration. 
The device symmetry greatly enhances the purity of the amplification process and 
simplifies both its operation and its analysis. The measured characteristics of
the amplifier in terms of gain and bandwidth are in good agreement with
analytical predictions. Using a newly developed noise source, we show that the
upper bound on the total system noise of our device under real operating
conditions is three times the quantum limit. We foresee applications in the area 
of quantum analog signal processing, such as quantum non-demolition single-shot
readout of qubits, quantum feedback and the production of entangled microwave
signal pairs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09035 
PMID: 20445625 


584. Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):60-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09037.

H(2) emission arises outside photodissociation regions in ultraluminous infrared 
galaxies.

Zakamska NL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Advanced Study, Einstein Drive, Princeton, New Jersey 08540,
USA. zakamska@ias.edu

Ultraluminous infrared galaxies are among the most luminous objects in the local 
Universe and are thought to be powered by intense star formation. It has been
shown that in these objects the rotational spectral lines of molecular hydrogen
observed at mid-infrared wavelengths are not affected by dust obscuration, but
left unresolved was the source of excitation for this emission. Here I report an 
analysis of archival Spitzer Space Telescope data on ultraluminous infrared
galaxies and demonstrate that dust obscuration affects star formation indicators 
but not molecular hydrogen. I thereby establish that the emission of H(2) is not 
co-spatial with the buried starburst activity and originates outside the obscured
regions. This is unexpected in light of the standard view that H(2) emission is
directly associated with star-formation activity. I propose the alternative view 
that H(2) emission in these objects traces shocks in the surrounding material
that are excited by interactions with nearby galaxies. Large-scale shocks cooling
by means of H(2) emission may accordingly be more common than previously thought.
In the early Universe, a boost in H(2) emission by this process may have
accelerated the cooling of matter as it collapsed to form the first stars and
galaxies, and would make these first structures more readily observable.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09037 
PMID: 20445624 


585. Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):53-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09000.

Deciphering the splicing code.

Barash Y(1), Calarco JA, Gao W, Pan Q, Wang X, Shai O, Blencowe BJ, Frey BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Engineering, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
University of Toronto, 10 King's College Road, Toronto M5S 3G4, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):16-7.
    Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):45-6.

Alternative splicing has a crucial role in the generation of biological
complexity, and its misregulation is often involved in human disease. Here we
describe the assembly of a 'splicing code', which uses combinations of hundreds
of RNA features to predict tissue-dependent changes in alternative splicing for
thousands of exons. The code determines new classes of splicing patterns,
identifies distinct regulatory programs in different tissues, and identifies
mutation-verified regulatory sequences. Widespread regulatory strategies are
revealed, including the use of unexpectedly large combinations of features, the
establishment of low exon inclusion levels that are overcome by features in
specific tissues, the appearance of features deeper into introns than previously 
appreciated, and the modulation of splice variant levels by transcript structure 
characteristics. The code detected a class of exons whose inclusion silences
expression in adult tissues by activating nonsense-mediated messenger RNA decay, 
but whose exclusion promotes expression during embryogenesis. The code
facilitates the discovery and detailed characterization of regulated alternative 
splicing events on a genome-wide scale.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09000 
PMID: 20445623  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):86-90. doi: 10.1038/nature08959. Epub 2010 Apr 25.

Cis-interactions between Notch and Delta generate mutually exclusive signalling
states.

Sprinzak D(1), Lakhanpal A, Lebon L, Santat LA, Fontes ME, Anderson GA,
Garcia-Ojalvo J, Elowitz MB.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Division of Biology and Department of Applied
Physics, California Institute of Technology, 1200 East California Boulevard,
Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

The Notch-Delta signalling pathway allows communication between neighbouring
cells during development. It has a critical role in the formation of
'fine-grained' patterns, generating distinct cell fates among groups of initially
equivalent neighbouring cells and sharply delineating neighbouring regions in
developing tissues. The Delta ligand has been shown to have two activities: it
transactivates Notch in neighbouring cells and cis-inhibits Notch in its own
cell. However, it remains unclear how Notch integrates these two activities and
how the resulting system facilitates pattern formation. Here we report the
development of a quantitative time-lapse microscopy platform for analysing
Notch-Delta signalling dynamics in individual mammalian cells, with the aim of
addressing these issues. By controlling both cis- and trans-Delta concentrations,
and monitoring the dynamics of a Notch reporter, we measured the combined
cis-trans input-output relationship in the Notch-Delta system. The data revealed 
a striking difference between the responses of Notch to trans- and cis-Delta:
whereas the response to trans-Delta is graded, the response to cis-Delta is sharp
and occurs at a fixed threshold, independent of trans-Delta. We developed a
simple mathematical model that shows how these behaviours emerge from the mutual 
inactivation of Notch and Delta proteins in the same cell. This interaction
generates an ultrasensitive switch between mutually exclusive sending (high
Delta/low Notch) and receiving (high Notch/low Delta) signalling states. At the
multicellular level, this switch can amplify small differences between
neighbouring cells even without transcription-mediated feedback. This Notch-Delta
signalling switch facilitates the formation of sharp boundaries and
lateral-inhibition patterns in models of development, and provides insight into
previously unexplained mutant behaviours.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08959 
PMCID: PMC2886601
PMID: 20418862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):96-100. doi: 10.1038/nature08960. Epub 2010 Apr 21.

Chemical genetics strategy identifies an HCV NS5A inhibitor with a potent
clinical effect.

Gao M(1), Nettles RE, Belema M, Snyder LB, Nguyen VN, Fridell RA, Serrano-Wu MH, 
Langley DR, Sun JH, O'Boyle DR 2nd, Lemm JA, Wang C, Knipe JO, Chien C, Colonno
RJ, Grasela DM, Meanwell NA, Hamann LG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, Bristol-Myers Squibb Research and Development, 5
Research Parkway, Wallingford, Connecticut 06492, USA.

Comment in
    Hepatology. 2010 Sep;52(3):1162-4.
    J Hepatol. 2011 May;54(5):1069-72.
    Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):42-4.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2010 Jun;9(6):432.
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2010 Jul;8(7):464.

The worldwide prevalence of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is
estimated to be approaching 200 million people. Current therapy relies upon a
combination of pegylated interferon-alpha and ribavirin, a poorly tolerated
regimen typically associated with less than 50% sustained virological response
rate in those infected with genotype 1 virus. The development of direct-acting
antiviral agents to treat HCV has focused predominantly on inhibitors of the
viral enzymes NS3 protease and the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase NS5B. Here we
describe the profile of BMS-790052, a small molecule inhibitor of the HCV NS5A
protein that exhibits picomolar half-maximum effective concentrations (EC(50))
towards replicons expressing a broad range of HCV genotypes and the JFH-1
genotype 2a infectious virus in cell culture. In a phase I clinical trial in
patients chronically infected with HCV, administration of a single 100-mg dose of
BMS-790052 was associated with a 3.3 log(10) reduction in mean viral load
measured 24 h post-dose that was sustained for an additional 120 h in two
patients infected with genotype 1b virus. Genotypic analysis of samples taken at 
baseline, 24 and 144 h post-dose revealed that the major HCV variants observed
had substitutions at amino-acid positions identified using the in vitro replicon 
system. These results provide the first clinical validation of an inhibitor of
HCV NS5A, a protein with no known enzymatic function, as an approach to the
suppression of virus replication that offers potential as part of a therapeutic
regimen based on combinations of HCV inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08960 
PMID: 20410884  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):106-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09025. Epub 2010 Apr 21.

An RNA polymerase II- and AGO4-associated protein acts in RNA-directed DNA
methylation.

Gao Z(1), Liu HL, Daxinger L, Pontes O, He X, Qian W, Lin H, Xie M, Lorkovic ZJ, 
Zhang S, Miki D, Zhan X, Pontier D, Lagrange T, Jin H, Matzke AJ, Matzke M,
Pikaard CS, Zhu JK.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Integrative Genome Biology and Department of Botany and Plant
Sciences, University of California, Riverside, California 92521, USA.

DNA methylation is an important epigenetic mark in many eukaryotes. In plants,
24-nucleotide small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) bound to the effector protein,
Argonaute 4 (AGO4), can direct de novo DNA methylation by the methyltransferase
DRM2 (refs 2, 4-6). Here we report a new regulator of RNA-directed DNA
methylation (RdDM) in Arabidopsis: RDM1. Loss-of-function mutations in the RDM1
gene impair the accumulation of 24-nucleotide siRNAs, reduce DNA methylation, and
release transcriptional gene silencing at RdDM target loci. RDM1 encodes a small 
protein that seems to bind single-stranded methyl DNA, and associates and
co-localizes with RNA polymerase II (Pol II, also known as NRPB), AGO4 and DRM2
in the nucleus. Our results indicate that RDM1 is a component of the RdDM
effector complex and may have a role in linking siRNA production with
pre-existing or de novo cytosine methylation. Our results also indicate that,
although RDM1 and Pol V (also known as NRPE) may function together at some RdDM
target sites in the peri-nucleolar siRNA processing centre, Pol II rather than
Pol V is associated with the RdDM effector complex at target sites in the
nucleoplasm.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09025 
PMCID: PMC2865564
PMID: 20410883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):115-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08992. Epub 2010 Apr 21.

Oxidation of methane by a biological dicopper centre.

Balasubramanian R(1), Smith SM, Rawat S, Yatsunyk LA, Stemmler TL, Rosenzweig AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Molecular Biology and Cell Biology, Northwestern
University, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):40-1.

Vast world reserves of methane gas are underutilized as a feedstock for the
production of liquid fuels and chemicals owing to the lack of economical and
sustainable strategies for the selective oxidation of methane to methanol.
Current processes to activate the strong C-H bond (104 kcal mol(-1)) in methane
require high temperatures, are costly and inefficient, and produce waste. In
nature, methanotrophic bacteria perform this reaction under ambient conditions
using metalloenzymes called methane monooxygenases (MMOs). MMOs thus provide the 
optimal model for an efficient, environmentally sound catalyst. There are two
types of MMO. Soluble MMO (sMMO) is expressed by several strains of methanotroph 
under copper-limited conditions and oxidizes methane with a well-characterized
catalytic di-iron centre. Particulate MMO (pMMO) is an integral membrane
metalloenzyme produced by all methanotrophs and is composed of three subunits,
pmoA, pmoB and pmoC, arranged in a trimeric alpha(3)beta(3)gamma(3) complex.
Despite 20 years of research and the availability of two crystal structures, the 
metal composition and location of the pMMO metal active site are not known. Here 
we show that pMMO activity is dependent on copper, not iron, and that the copper 
active site is located in the soluble domains of the pmoB subunit rather than
within the membrane. Recombinant soluble fragments of pmoB (spmoB) bind copper
and have propylene and methane oxidation activities. Disruption of each copper
centre in spmoB by mutagenesis indicates that the active site is a dicopper
centre. These findings help resolve the pMMO controversy and provide a promising 
new approach to developing environmentally friendly C-H oxidation catalysts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08992 
PMCID: PMC2999467
PMID: 20410881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):110-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08950.

X-ray crystal structure of the light-independent protochlorophyllide reductase.

Muraki N(1), Nomata J, Ebata K, Mizoguchi T, Shiba T, Tamiaki H, Kurisu G, Fujita
Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Tokyo, Komaba, Meguro-ku, Tokyo
153-8902, Japan.

Photosynthetic organisms adopt two different strategies for the reduction of the 
C17 = C18 double bond of protochlorophyllide (Pchlide) to form chlorophyllide a, 
the direct precursor of chlorophyll a (refs 1-4). The first involves the activity
of the light-dependent Pchlide oxidoreductase, and the second involves the
light-independent (dark-operative) Pchlide oxidoreductase (DPOR). DPOR is a
nitrogenase-like enzyme consisting of two components, L-protein (a BchL dimer)
and NB-protein (a BchN-BchB heterotetramer), which are structurally related to
nitrogenase Fe protein and MoFe protein, respectively. Here we report the crystal
structure of the NB-protein of DPOR from Rhodobacter capsulatus at a resolution
of 2.3A. As expected, the overall structure is similar to that of nitrogenase
MoFe protein: each catalytic BchN-BchB unit contains one Pchlide and one
iron-sulphur cluster (NB-cluster) coordinated uniquely by one aspartate and three
cysteines. Unique aspartate ligation is not necessarily needed for the cluster
assembly but is essential for the catalytic activity. Specific Pchlide-binding
accompanies the partial unwinding of an alpha-helix that belongs to the next
catalytic BchN-BchB unit. We propose a unique trans-specific reduction mechanism 
in which the distorted C17-propionate of Pchlide and an aspartate from BchB serve
as proton donors for C18 and C17 of Pchlide, respectively. Intriguingly, the
spatial arrangement of the NB-cluster and Pchlide is almost identical to that of 
the P-cluster and FeMo-cofactor in nitrogenase MoFe-protein, illustrating that a 
common architecture exists to reduce chemically stable multibonds of porphyrin
and dinitrogen.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08950 
PMID: 20400946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):101-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08946. Epub 2010 Apr 18.

The scaffold protein Ste5 directly controls a switch-like mating decision in
yeast.

Malleshaiah MK(1), Shahrezaei V, Swain PS, Michnick SW.

Author information: 
(1)Département de Biochimie, Bio-Informatique et Génomique Université de
Montréal, C.P. 6128, Succursale centre-ville Montréal, Québec H3C 3J7, Canada.

Evolution has resulted in numerous innovations that allow organisms to increase
their fitness by choosing particular mating partners, including secondary sexual 
characteristics, behavioural patterns, chemical attractants and corresponding
sensory mechanisms. The haploid yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae selects mating
partners by interpreting the concentration gradient of pheromone secreted by
potential mates through a network of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)
signalling proteins. The mating decision in yeast is an all-or-none, or
switch-like, response that allows cells to filter weak pheromone signals, thus
avoiding inappropriate commitment to mating by responding only at or above
critical concentrations when a mate is sufficiently close. The molecular
mechanisms that govern the switch-like mating decision are poorly understood.
Here we show that the switching mechanism arises from competition between the
MAPK Fus3 and a phosphatase Ptc1 for control of the phosphorylation state of four
sites on the scaffold protein Ste5. This competition results in a switch-like
dissociation of Fus3 from Ste5 that is necessary to generate the switch-like
mating response. Thus, the decision to mate is made at an early stage in the
pheromone pathway and occurs rapidly, perhaps to prevent the loss of the
potential mate to competitors. We argue that the architecture of the
Fus3-Ste5-Ptc1 circuit generates a novel ultrasensitivity mechanism, which is
robust to variations in the concentrations of these proteins. This robustness
helps assure that mating can occur despite stochastic or genetic variation
between individuals. The role of Ste5 as a direct modulator of a cell-fate
decision expands the functional repertoire of scaffold proteins beyond providing 
specificity and efficiency of information processing. Similar mechanisms may
govern cellular decisions in higher organisms and be disrupted in cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08946 
PMID: 20400943  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):47-52. doi: 10.1038/nature08961. Epub 2010 Apr 14.

Olfactory pattern classification by discrete neuronal network states.

Niessing J(1), Friedrich RW.

Author information: 
(1)Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research, Maulbeerstr. 66, CH-4058
Basel, Switzerland.

The categorial nature of sensory, cognitive and behavioural acts indicates that
the brain classifies neuronal activity patterns into discrete representations.
Pattern classification may be achieved by abrupt switching between discrete
activity states of neuronal circuits, but few experimental studies have directly 
tested this. We gradually varied the concentration or molecular identity of
odours and optically measured responses across output neurons of the olfactory
bulb in zebrafish. Whereas population activity patterns were largely insensitive 
to changes in odour concentration, morphing of one odour into another resulted in
abrupt transitions between odour representations. These transitions were mediated
by coordinated response changes among small neuronal ensembles rather than by
shifts in the global network state. The olfactory bulb therefore classifies
odour-evoked input patterns into many discrete and defined output patterns, as
proposed by attractor models. This computation is consistent with perceptual
phenomena and may represent a general information processing strategy in the
brain.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08961 
PMID: 20393466  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):82-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08958. Epub 2010 Apr 14.

Pronuclear transfer in human embryos to prevent transmission of mitochondrial DNA
disease.

Craven L(1), Tuppen HA, Greggains GD, Harbottle SJ, Murphy JL, Cree LM, Murdoch
AP, Chinnery PF, Taylor RW, Lightowlers RN, Herbert M, Turnbull DM.

Author information: 
(1)Mitochondrial Research Group, Institute for Ageing and Health, Newcastle upon 
Tyne NE2 4HH, UK.

Mutations in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) are a common cause of genetic disease.
Pathogenic mutations in mtDNA are detected in approximately 1 in 250 live births 
and at least 1 in 10,000 adults in the UK are affected by mtDNA disease.
Treatment options for patients with mtDNA disease are extremely limited and are
predominantly supportive in nature. Mitochondrial DNA is transmitted maternally
and it has been proposed that nuclear transfer techniques may be an approach for 
the prevention of transmission of human mtDNA disease. Here we show that transfer
of pronuclei between abnormally fertilized human zygotes results in minimal
carry-over of donor zygote mtDNA and is compatible with onward development to the
blastocyst stage in vitro. By optimizing the procedure we found the average level
of carry-over after transfer of two pronuclei is less than 2.0%, with many of the
embryos containing no detectable donor mtDNA. We believe that pronuclear transfer
between zygotes, as well as the recently described metaphase II spindle transfer,
has the potential to prevent the transmission of mtDNA disease in humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08958 
PMCID: PMC2875160
PMID: 20393463  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):91-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09011. Epub 2010 Apr 4.

The molecular basis for water taste in Drosophila.

Cameron P(1), Hiroi M, Ngai J, Scott K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology and Helen Wills Neuroscience
Institute, CA, USA.

The detection of water and the regulation of water intake are essential for
animals to maintain proper osmotic homeostasis. Drosophila and other insects have
gustatory sensory neurons that mediate the recognition of external water sources,
but little is known about the underlying molecular mechanism for water taste
detection. Here we identify a member of the degenerin/epithelial sodium channel
family, PPK28, as an osmosensitive ion channel that mediates the cellular and
behavioural response to water. We use molecular, cellular, calcium imaging and
electrophysiological approaches to show that ppk28 is expressed in water-sensing 
neurons, and that loss of ppk28 abolishes water sensitivity. Moreover, ectopic
expression of ppk28 confers water sensitivity to bitter-sensing gustatory neurons
in the fly and sensitivity to hypo-osmotic solutions when expressed in
heterologous cells. These studies link an osmosensitive ion channel to water
taste detection and drinking behaviour, providing the framework for examining the
molecular basis for water detection in other animals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09011 
PMCID: PMC2865571
PMID: 20364123  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1293-300.

Genetics, pathogenesis and clinical interventions in type 1 diabetes.

Bluestone JA(1), Herold K, Eisenbarth G.

Author information: 
(1)Diabetes Center and the Department of Medicine, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California 94143, USA. jbluest@diabetes.ucsf.edu

Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disorder afflicting millions of people
worldwide. Once diagnosed, patients require lifelong insulin treatment and can
experience numerous disease-associated complications. The last decade has seen
tremendous advances in elucidating the causes and treatment of the disease based 
on extensive research both in rodent models of spontaneous diabetes and in
humans. Integrating these advances has led to the recognition that the balance
between regulatory and effector T cells determines disease risk, timing of
disease activation, and disease tempo. Here we describe current progress, the
challenges ahead and the new interventions that are being tested to address the
unmet need for preventative or curative therapies.


PMCID: PMC4959889
PMID: 20432533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1357-61. doi: 10.1038/nature08938.

NLRP3 inflammasomes are required for atherogenesis and activated by cholesterol
crystals.

Duewell P(1), Kono H, Rayner KJ, Sirois CM, Vladimer G, Bauernfeind FG, Abela GS,
Franchi L, Nuñez G, Schnurr M, Espevik T, Lien E, Fitzgerald KA, Rock KL, Moore
KJ, Wright SD, Hornung V, Latz E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases and Immunology, University of Massachusetts 
Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):652.

The inflammatory nature of atherosclerosis is well established but the agent(s)
that incite inflammation in the artery wall remain largely unknown. Germ-free
animals are susceptible to atherosclerosis, suggesting that endogenous substances
initiate the inflammation. Mature atherosclerotic lesions contain macroscopic
deposits of cholesterol crystals in the necrotic core, but their appearance late 
in atherogenesis had been thought to disqualify them as primary inflammatory
stimuli. However, using a new microscopic technique, we revealed that minute
cholesterol crystals are present in early diet-induced atherosclerotic lesions
and that their appearance in mice coincides with the first appearance of
inflammatory cells. Other crystalline substances can induce inflammation by
stimulating the caspase-1-activating NLRP3 (NALP3 or cryopyrin) inflammasome,
which results in cleavage and secretion of interleukin (IL)-1 family cytokines.
Here we show that cholesterol crystals activate the NLRP3 inflammasome in
phagocytes in vitro in a process that involves phagolysosomal damage. Similarly, 
when injected intraperitoneally, cholesterol crystals induce acute inflammation, 
which is impaired in mice deficient in components of the NLRP3 inflammasome,
cathepsin B, cathepsin L or IL-1 molecules. Moreover, when mice deficient in
low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) were bone-marrow transplanted with
NLRP3-deficient, ASC (also known as PYCARD)-deficient or IL-1alpha/beta-deficient
bone marrow and fed on a high-cholesterol diet, they had markedly decreased early
atherosclerosis and inflammasome-dependent IL-18 levels. Minimally modified LDL
can lead to cholesterol crystallization concomitant with NLRP3 inflammasome
priming and activation in macrophages. Although there is the possibility that
oxidized LDL activates the NLRP3 inflammasome in vivo, our results demonstrate
that crystalline cholesterol acts as an endogenous danger signal and its
deposition in arteries or elsewhere is an early cause rather than a late
consequence of inflammation. These findings provide new insights into the
pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and indicate new potential molecular targets for 
the therapy of this disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08938 
PMCID: PMC2946640
PMID: 20428172  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1351-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08990.

Genome, epigenome and RNA sequences of monozygotic twins discordant for multiple 
sclerosis.

Baranzini SE(1), Mudge J, van Velkinburgh JC, Khankhanian P, Khrebtukova I,
Miller NA, Zhang L, Farmer AD, Bell CJ, Kim RW, May GD, Woodward JE, Caillier SJ,
McElroy JP, Gomez R, Pando MJ, Clendenen LE, Ganusova EE, Schilkey FD, Ramaraj T,
Khan OA, Huntley JJ, Luo S, Kwok PY, Wu TD, Schroth GP, Oksenberg JR, Hauser SL, 
Kingsmore SF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California at San Francisco, San
Francisco, California 94143, USA. sebaran@cgl.ucsf.edu

Comment in
    Expert Rev Neurother. 2010 Sep;10(9):1379-81.

Monozygotic or 'identical' twins have been widely studied to dissect the relative
contributions of genetics and environment in human diseases. In multiple
sclerosis (MS), an autoimmune demyelinating disease and common cause of
neurodegeneration and disability in young adults, disease discordance in
monozygotic twins has been interpreted to indicate environmental importance in
its pathogenesis. However, genetic and epigenetic differences between monozygotic
twins have been described, challenging the accepted experimental model in
disambiguating the effects of nature and nurture. Here we report the genome
sequences of one MS-discordant monozygotic twin pair, and messenger RNA
transcriptome and epigenome sequences of CD4(+) lymphocytes from three
MS-discordant, monozygotic twin pairs. No reproducible differences were detected 
between co-twins among approximately 3.6 million single nucleotide polymorphisms 
(SNPs) or approximately 0.2 million insertion-deletion polymorphisms. Nor were
any reproducible differences observed between siblings of the three twin pairs in
HLA haplotypes, confirmed MS-susceptibility SNPs, copy number variations, mRNA
and genomic SNP and insertion-deletion genotypes, or the expression of
approximately 19,000 genes in CD4(+) T cells. Only 2 to 176 differences in the
methylation of approximately 2 million CpG dinucleotides were detected between
siblings of the three twin pairs, in contrast to approximately 800 methylation
differences between T cells of unrelated individuals and several thousand
differences between tissues or between normal and cancerous tissues. In the first
systematic effort to estimate sequence variation among monozygotic co-twins, we
did not find evidence for genetic, epigenetic or transcriptome differences that
explained disease discordance. These are the first, to our knowledge, female,
twin and autoimmune disease individual genome sequences reported.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08990 
PMCID: PMC2862593
PMID: 20428171  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1347-50. doi: 10.1038/nature08939.

A role for host-parasite interactions in the horizontal transfer of transposons
across phyla.

Gilbert C(1), Schaack S, Pace JK 2nd, Brindley PJ, Feschotte C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Texas, Arlington, Texas 76019, USA.

Horizontal transfer (HT), or the passage of genetic material between non-mating
species, is increasingly recognized as an important force in the evolution of
eukaryotic genomes. Transposons, with their inherent ability to mobilize and
amplify within genomes, may be especially prone to HT. However, the means by
which transposons can spread across widely diverged species remain elusive. Here 
we present evidence that host-parasite interactions have promoted the HT of four 
transposon families between invertebrates and vertebrates. We found that Rhodnius
prolixus, a triatomine bug feeding on the blood of various tetrapods and vector
of Chagas' disease in humans, carries in its genome four distinct transposon
families that also invaded the genomes of a diverse, but overlapping, set of
tetrapods. The bug transposons are approximately 98% identical and cluster
phylogenetically with those of the opossum and squirrel monkey, two of its
preferred mammalian hosts in South America. We also identified one of these
transposon families in the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis, a cosmopolitan vector of
trematodes infecting diverse vertebrates, whose ancestral sequence is nearly
identical and clusters with those found in Old World mammals. Together these data
provide evidence for a previously hypothesized role of host-parasite interactions
in facilitating HT among animals. Furthermore, the large amount of DNA generated 
by the amplification of the horizontally transferred transposons supports the
idea that the exchange of genetic material between hosts and parasites influences
their genomic evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08939 
PMCID: PMC3004126
PMID: 20428170  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1338-41. doi: 10.1038/nature08965.

Exceptional dinosaur fossils show ontogenetic development of early feathers.

Xu X(1), Zheng X, You H.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Evolutionary Systematics of Vertebrates, Institute of
Vertebrate Paleontology & Paleoanthropology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 142
Xiwai Street, Beijing 100044, China. xingxu@vip.sina.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):E1; discussion E2.

Recent discoveries of feathered dinosaur specimens have greatly improved our
understanding of the origin and early evolution of feathers, but little
information is available on the ontogenetic development of early feathers. Here
we describe an early-juvenile specimen and a late-juvenile specimen, both
referable to the oviraptorosaur Similicaudipteryx, recovered from the Lower
Cretaceous Yixian Formation of western Liaoning, China. The two specimens have
strikingly different remiges and rectrices, suggesting that a radical
morphological change occurred during feather development, as is the case for
modern feathers. However, both the remiges and the rectrices are proximally
ribbon-like in the younger specimen but fully pennaceous in the older specimen, a
pattern not known in any modern bird. In combination with the wide distribution
of proximally ribbon-like pennaceous feathers and elongate broad filamentous
feathers among extinct theropods, this find suggests that early feathers were
developmentally more diverse than modern ones and that some developmental
features, and the resultant morphotypes, have been lost in feather evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08965 
PMID: 20428169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1334-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09051.

The central role of diminishing sea ice in recent Arctic temperature
amplification.

Screen JA(1), Simmonds I.

Author information: 
(1)School of Earth Sciences, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria 3010,
Australia. screenj@unimelb.edu.au

The rise in Arctic near-surface air temperatures has been almost twice as large
as the global average in recent decades-a feature known as 'Arctic
amplification'. Increased concentrations of atmospheric greenhouse gases have
driven Arctic and global average warming; however, the underlying causes of
Arctic amplification remain uncertain. The roles of reductions in snow and sea
ice cover and changes in atmospheric and oceanic circulation, cloud cover and
water vapour are still matters of debate. A better understanding of the processes
responsible for the recent amplified warming is essential for assessing the
likelihood, and impacts, of future rapid Arctic warming and sea ice loss. Here we
show that the Arctic warming is strongest at the surface during most of the year 
and is primarily consistent with reductions in sea ice cover. Changes in cloud
cover, in contrast, have not contributed strongly to recent warming. Increases in
atmospheric water vapour content, partly in response to reduced sea ice cover,
may have enhanced warming in the lower part of the atmosphere during summer and
early autumn. We conclude that diminishing sea ice has had a leading role in
recent Arctic temperature amplification. The findings reinforce suggestions that 
strong positive ice-temperature feedbacks have emerged in the Arctic, increasing 
the chances of further rapid warming and sea ice loss, and will probably affect
polar ecosystems, ice-sheet mass balance and human activities in the Arctic.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09051 
PMID: 20428168 


601. Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1329-33. doi: 10.1038/nature08969.

A molecular molybdenum-oxo catalyst for generating hydrogen from water.

Karunadasa HI(1), Chang CJ, Long JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720,
USA.

A growing awareness of issues related to anthropogenic climate change and an
increase in global energy demand have made the search for viable carbon-neutral
sources of renewable energy one of the most important challenges in science
today. The chemical community is therefore seeking efficient and inexpensive
catalysts that can produce large quantities of hydrogen gas from water. Here we
identify a molybdenum-oxo complex that can catalytically generate gaseous
hydrogen either from water at neutral pH or from sea water. This work shows that 
high-valency metal-oxo species can be used to create reduction catalysts that are
robust and functional in water, a concept that has broad implications for the
design of 'green' and sustainable chemistry cycles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08969 
PMID: 20428167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1324-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08953.

Dipolar collisions of polar molecules in the quantum regime.

Ni KK(1), Ospelkaus S, Wang D, Quéméner G, Neyenhuis B, de Miranda MH, Bohn JL,
Ye J, Jin DS.

Author information: 
(1)JILA, NIST and University of Colorado, Department of Physics, University of
Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309-0440, USA.

Ultracold polar molecules offer the possibility of exploring quantum gases with
interparticle interactions that are strong, long-range and spatially anisotropic.
This is in stark contrast to the much studied dilute gases of ultracold atoms,
which have isotropic and extremely short-range (or 'contact') interactions.
Furthermore, the large electric dipole moment of polar molecules can be tuned
using an external electric field; this has a range of applications such as the
control of ultracold chemical reactions, the design of a platform for quantum
information processing and the realization of novel quantum many-body systems.
Despite intense experimental efforts aimed at observing the influence of dipoles 
on ultracold molecules, only recently have sufficiently high densities been
achieved. Here we report the experimental observation of dipolar collisions in an
ultracold molecular gas prepared close to quantum degeneracy. For modest values
of an applied electric field, we observe a pronounced increase in the loss rate
of fermionic potassium-rubidium molecules due to ultracold chemical reactions. We
find that the loss rate has a steep power-law dependence on the induced electric 
dipole moment, and we show that this dependence can be understood in a relatively
simple model based on quantum threshold laws for the scattering of fermionic
polar molecules. In addition, we directly observe the spatial anisotropy of the
dipolar interaction through measurements of the thermodynamics of the dipolar
gas. These results demonstrate how the long-range dipolar interaction can be used
for electric-field control of chemical reaction rates in an ultracold gas of
polar molecules. Furthermore, the large loss rates in an applied electric field
suggest that creating a long-lived ensemble of ultracold polar molecules may
require confinement in a two-dimensional trap geometry to suppress the influence 
of the attractive, 'head-to-tail', dipolar interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08953 
PMID: 20428166 


603. Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1322-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09028.

Detection of ice and organics on an asteroidal surface.

Rivkin AS(1), Emery JP.

Author information: 
(1)Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel, Maryland 20723,
USA. andy.rivkin@jhuapl.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1286-7.

Recent observations, including the discovery in typical asteroidal orbits of
objects with cometary characteristics (main-belt comets, or MBCs), have blurred
the line between comets and asteroids, although so far neither ice nor organic
material has been detected on the surface of an asteroid or directly proven to be
an asteroidal constituent. Here we report the spectroscopic detection of water
ice and organic material on the asteroid 24 Themis, a detection that has been
independently confirmed. 24 Themis belongs to the same dynamical family as three 
of the five known MBCs, and the presence of ice on 24 Themis is strong evidence
that it also is present in the MBCs. We conclude that water ice is more common on
asteroids than was previously thought and may be widespread in asteroidal
interiors at much smaller heliocentric distances than was previously expected.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09028 
PMID: 20428165  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1320-1. doi: 10.1038/nature09029.

Water ice and organics on the surface of the asteroid 24 Themis.

Campins H(1), Hargrove K, Pinilla-Alonso N, Howell ES, Kelley MS, Licandro J,
Mothé-Diniz T, Fernández Y, Ziffer J.

Author information: 
(1)University of Central Florida, PO Box 162385, Orlando, Florida 32816-2385,
USA. campins@physics.ucf.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1286-7.

It has been suggested that Earth's current supply of water was delivered by
asteroids, some time after the collision that produced the Moon (which would have
vaporized any of the pre-existing water). So far, no measurements of water ice on
asteroids have been made, but its presence has been inferred from the comet-like 
activity of several small asteroids, including two members of the Themis
dynamical family. Here we report infrared spectra of the asteroid 24 Themis which
show that ice and organic compounds are not only present on its surface but also 
prevalent. Infrared spectral differences between it and other asteroids make 24
Themis unique so far, and our identification of ice and organics agrees with
independent results that rule out other compounds as possible sources of the
observed spectral structure. The widespread presence of surface ice on 24 Themis 
is somewhat unexpected because of the relatively short lifetime of exposed ice at
this distance ( approximately 3.2 au) from the Sun. Nevertheless, there are
several plausible sources, such as a subsurface reservoir that brings water to
the surface through 'impact gardening' and/or sublimation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09029 
PMID: 20428164  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1307-12. doi: 10.1038/nature08947.

Dendritic organization of sensory input to cortical neurons in vivo.

Jia H(1), Rochefort NL, Chen X, Konnerth A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience and Center for Integrated Protein Science, Technical
University Munich, Biedersteinerstrasse 29, 80802 Munich, Germany.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2010 Jul;11(7):453.
    Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1290-1.

In sensory cortex regions, neurons are tuned to specific stimulus features. For
example, in the visual cortex, many neurons fire predominantly in response to
moving objects of a preferred orientation. However, the characteristics of the
synaptic input that cortical neurons receive to generate their output firing
pattern remain unclear. Here we report a novel approach for the visualization and
functional mapping of sensory inputs to the dendrites of cortical neurons in
vivo. By combining high-speed two-photon imaging with electrophysiological
recordings, we identify local subthreshold calcium signals that correspond to
orientation-specific synaptic inputs. We find that even inputs that share the
same orientation preference are widely distributed throughout the dendritic tree.
At the same time, inputs of different orientation preference are interspersed, so
that adjacent dendritic segments are tuned to distinct orientations. Thus,
orientation-tuned neurons can compute their characteristic firing pattern by
integrating spatially distributed synaptic inputs coding for multiple stimulus
orientations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08947 
PMID: 20428163  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1301-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09009.

Dicke quantum phase transition with a superfluid gas in an optical cavity.

Baumann K(1), Guerlin C, Brennecke F, Esslinger T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Quantum Electronics, ETH Zürich, 8093 Zürich, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1289-90.

A phase transition describes the sudden change of state of a physical system,
such as melting or freezing. Quantum gases provide the opportunity to establish a
direct link between experiments and generic models that capture the underlying
physics. The Dicke model describes a collective matter-light interaction and has 
been predicted to show an intriguing quantum phase transition. Here we realize
the Dicke quantum phase transition in an open system formed by a Bose-Einstein
condensate coupled to an optical cavity, and observe the emergence of a
self-organized supersolid phase. The phase transition is driven by infinitely
long-range interactions between the condensed atoms, induced by two-photon
processes involving the cavity mode and a pump field. We show that the phase
transition is described by the Dicke Hamiltonian, including counter-rotating
coupling terms, and that the supersolid phase is associated with a spontaneously 
broken spatial symmetry. The boundary of the phase transition is mapped out in
quantitative agreement with the Dicke model. Our results should facilitate
studies of quantum gases with long-range interactions and provide access to novel
quantum phases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09009 
PMID: 20428162 


607. Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1342-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08927. Epub 2010 Apr 18.

Evolution of self-compatibility in Arabidopsis by a mutation in the male
specificity gene.

Tsuchimatsu T(1), Suwabe K, Shimizu-Inatsugi R, Isokawa S, Pavlidis P, Städler T,
Suzuki G, Takayama S, Watanabe M, Shimizu KK.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Plant Biology, University Research Priority Program in Systems
Biology/Functional Genomics & Zürich-Basel Plant Science Center, University of
Zurich, Zollikerstrasse 107, CH-8008 Zurich, Switzerland.

Ever since Darwin's pioneering research, the evolution of self-fertilisation
(selfing) has been regarded as one of the most prevalent evolutionary transitions
in flowering plants. A major mechanism to prevent selfing is the
self-incompatibility (SI) recognition system, which consists of male and female
specificity genes at the S-locus and SI modifier genes. Under conditions that
favour selfing, mutations disabling the male recognition component are predicted 
to enjoy a relative advantage over those disabling the female component, because 
male mutations would increase through both pollen and seeds whereas female
mutations would increase only through seeds. Despite many studies on the genetic 
basis of loss of SI in the predominantly selfing plant Arabidopsis thaliana, it
remains unknown whether selfing arose through mutations in the female specificity
gene (S-receptor kinase, SRK), male specificity gene (S-locus cysteine-rich
protein, SCR; also known as S-locus protein 11, SP11) or modifier genes, and
whether any of them rose to high frequency across large geographic regions. Here 
we report that a disruptive 213-base-pair (bp) inversion in the SCR gene (or its 
derivative haplotypes with deletions encompassing the entire SCR-A and a large
portion of SRK-A) is found in 95% of European accessions, which contrasts with
the genome-wide pattern of polymorphism in European A. thaliana. Importantly,
interspecific crossings using Arabidopsis halleri as a pollen donor reveal that
some A. thaliana accessions, including Wei-1, retain the female SI reaction,
suggesting that all female components including SRK are still functional.
Moreover, when the 213-bp inversion in SCR was inverted and expressed in
transgenic Wei-1 plants, the functional SCR restored the SI reaction. The
inversion within SCR is the first mutation disrupting SI shown to be nearly fixed
in geographically wide samples, and its prevalence is consistent with theoretical
predictions regarding the evolutionary advantage of mutations in male components.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08927 
PMID: 20400945  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1376-80. doi: 10.1038/nature08928. Epub 2010 Apr
14.

Control of cortical GABA circuitry development by Nrg1 and ErbB4 signalling.

Fazzari P(1), Paternain AV, Valiente M, Pla R, Luján R, Lloyd K, Lerma J, Marín
O, Rico B.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Neurociencias, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas & 
Universidad Miguel Hernández, 03550 Sant Joan d'Alacant, Spain.

Schizophrenia is a complex disorder that interferes with the function of several 
brain systems required for cognition and normal social behaviour. Although the
most notable clinical aspects of the disease only become apparent during late
adolescence or early adulthood, many lines of evidence suggest that schizophrenia
is a neurodevelopmental disorder with a strong genetic component. Several
independent studies have identified neuregulin 1 (NRG1) and its receptor ERBB4 as
important risk genes for schizophrenia, although their precise role in the
disease process remains unknown. Here we show that Nrg1 and ErbB4 signalling
controls the development of inhibitory circuitries in the mammalian cerebral
cortex by cell-autonomously regulating the connectivity of specific GABA
(gamma-aminobutyric acid)-containing interneurons. In contrast to the prevalent
view, which supports a role for these genes in the formation and function of
excitatory synapses between pyramidal cells, we found that ErbB4 expression in
the mouse neocortex and hippocampus is largely confined to certain classes of
interneurons. In particular, ErbB4 is expressed by many parvalbumin-expressing
chandelier and basket cells, where it localizes to axon terminals and
postsynaptic densities receiving glutamatergic input. Gain- and loss-of-function 
experiments, both in vitro and in vivo, demonstrate that ErbB4 cell-autonomously 
promotes the formation of axo-axonic inhibitory synapses over pyramidal cells,
and that this function is probably mediated by Nrg1. In addition, ErbB4
expression in GABA-containing interneurons regulates the formation of excitatory 
synapses onto the dendrites of these cells. By contrast, ErbB4 is dispensable for
excitatory transmission between pyramidal neurons. Altogether, our results
indicate that Nrg1 and ErbB4 signalling is required for the wiring of
GABA-mediated circuits in the postnatal cortex, providing a new perspective to
the involvement of these genes in the aetiology of schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08928 
PMID: 20393464  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1371-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08949.

Innate lymphoid cells drive interleukin-23-dependent innate intestinal pathology.

Buonocore S(1), Ahern PP, Uhlig HH, Ivanov II, Littman DR, Maloy KJ, Powrie F.

Author information: 
(1)Sir William Dunn School of Pathology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3RE,
UK.

The key role of interleukin (IL)-23 in the pathogenesis of autoimmune and chronic
inflammatory disorders is supported by the identification of IL-23 receptor
(IL-23R) susceptibility alleles associated with inflammatory bowel disease,
psoriasis and ankylosing spondylitis. IL-23-driven inflammation has primarily
been linked to the actions of T-helper type 17 (TH17) cells. Somewhat overlooked,
IL-23 also has inflammatory effects on innate immune cells and can drive
T-cell-independent colitis. However, the downstream cellular and molecular
pathways involved in this innate intestinal inflammatory response are poorly
characterized. Here we show that bacteria-driven innate colitis is associated
with an increased production of IL-17 and interferon-gamma in the colon.
Stimulation of colonic leukocytes with IL-23 induced the production of IL-17 and 
interferon-gamma exclusively by innate lymphoid cells expressing Thy1, stem cell 
antigen 1 (SCA-1), retinoic-acid-related orphan receptor (ROR)-gammat and IL-23R,
and these cells markedly accumulated in the inflamed colon. IL-23-responsive
innate intestinal cells are also a feature of T-cell-dependent models of colitis.
The transcription factor ROR-gammat, which controls IL-23R expression, has a
functional role, because Rag-/-Rorc-/- mice failed to develop innate colitis.
Last, depletion of Thy1+ innate lymphoid cells completely abrogated acute and
chronic innate colitis. These results identify a previously unrecognized
IL-23-responsive innate lymphoid population that mediates intestinal immune
pathology and may therefore represent a target in inflammatory bowel disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08949 
PMCID: PMC3796764
PMID: 20393462  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1381-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08922. Epub 2010 Apr 11.

IkappaBzeta regulates T(H)17 development by cooperating with ROR nuclear
receptors.

Okamoto K(1), Iwai Y, Oh-Hora M, Yamamoto M, Morio T, Aoki K, Ohya K, Jetten AM, 
Akira S, Muta T, Takayanagi H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Signaling, Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences, 
Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Japan.

Interleukin (IL)-17-producing helper T (T(H)17) cells are a distinct T-cell
subset characterized by its pathological role in autoimmune diseases. IL-6 and
transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) induce T(H)17 development, in which
the orphan nuclear receptors, RORgammat and RORalpha, have an indispensable role.
However, in the absence of IL-6 and TGF-beta, the ectopic expression of RORgammat
or RORalpha leads to only a modest IL-17 production. Here we identify a nuclear
IkappaB family member, IkappaBzeta (encoded by the Nfkbiz gene), as a
transcription factor required for T(H)17 development in mice. The ectopic
expression of IkappaBzeta in naive CD4(+) T cells together with RORgammat or
RORalpha potently induces T(H)17 development, even in the absence of IL-6 and
TGF-beta. Notably, Nfkbiz(-/-) mice have a defect in T(H)17 development and a
resistance to experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). The
T-cell-intrinsic function of IkappaBzeta was clearly demonstrated by the
resistance to EAE of the Rag2(-/-) mice into which Nfkbiz(-/-) CD4(+) T cells
were transferred. In cooperation with RORgammat and RORalpha, IkappaBzeta
enhances Il17a expression by binding directly to the regulatory region of the
Il17a gene. This study provides evidence for the transcriptional mechanisms
underlying T(H)17 development and points to a molecular basis for a novel
therapeutic strategy against autoimmune disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08922 
PMID: 20383124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1386-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08948. Epub 2010 Apr 11.

Tracking G-protein-coupled receptor activation using genetically encoded infrared
probes.

Ye S(1), Zaitseva E, Caltabiano G, Schertler GF, Sakmar TP, Deupi X, Vogel R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, The Rockefeller University, 
1230 York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Rhodopsin is a prototypical heptahelical family A G-protein-coupled receptor
(GPCR) responsible for dim-light vision. Light isomerizes rhodopsin's retinal
chromophore and triggers concerted movements of transmembrane helices, including 
an outward tilting of helix 6 (H6) and a smaller movement of H5, to create a site
for G-protein binding and activation. However, the precise temporal sequence and 
mechanism underlying these helix rearrangements is unclear. We used site-directed
non-natural amino acid mutagenesis to engineer rhodopsin with
p-azido-l-phenylalanine residues incorporated at selected sites, and monitored
the azido vibrational signatures using infrared spectroscopy as rhodopsin
proceeded along its activation pathway. Here we report significant changes in
electrostatic environments of the azido probes even in the inactive photoproduct 
Meta I, well before the active receptor state was formed. These early changes
suggest a significant rotation of H6 and movement of the cytoplasmic part of H5
away from H3. Subsequently, a large outward tilt of H6 leads to opening of the
cytoplasmic surface to form the active receptor photoproduct Meta II. Thus, our
results reveal early conformational changes that precede larger rigid-body helix 
movements, and provide a basis to interpret recent GPCR crystal structures and to
understand conformational sub-states observed during the activation of other
GPCRs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08948 
PMID: 20383122  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1313-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08991. Epub 2010 Mar 31.

Adiponectin and AdipoR1 regulate PGC-1alpha and mitochondria by Ca(2+) and
AMPK/SIRT1.

Iwabu M(1), Yamauchi T, Okada-Iwabu M, Sato K, Nakagawa T, Funata M, Yamaguchi M,
Namiki S, Nakayama R, Tabata M, Ogata H, Kubota N, Takamoto I, Hayashi YK,
Yamauchi N, Waki H, Fukayama M, Nishino I, Tokuyama K, Ueki K, Oike Y, Ishii S,
Hirose K, Shimizu T, Touhara K, Kadowaki T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diabetes and Metabolic Diseases, Graduate School of Medicine,
University of Tokyo, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2010 Jun 9;11(6):447-9.

Adiponectin is an anti-diabetic adipokine. Its receptors possess a
seven-transmembrane topology with the amino terminus located intracellularly,
which is the opposite of G-protein-coupled receptors. Here we provide evidence
that adiponectin induces extracellular Ca(2+) influx by adiponectin receptor 1
(AdipoR1), which was necessary for subsequent activation of
Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase kinase beta (CaMKKbeta), AMPK and
SIRT1, increased expression and decreased acetylation of peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1alpha (PGC-1alpha), and
increased mitochondria in myocytes. Moreover, muscle-specific disruption of
AdipoR1 suppressed the adiponectin-mediated increase in intracellular Ca(2+)
concentration, and decreased the activation of CaMKK, AMPK and SIRT1 by
adiponectin. Suppression of AdipoR1 also resulted in decreased PGC-1alpha
expression and deacetylation, decreased mitochondrial content and enzymes,
decreased oxidative type I myofibres, and decreased oxidative stress-detoxifying 
enzymes in skeletal muscle, which were associated with insulin resistance and
decreased exercise endurance. Decreased levels of adiponectin and AdipoR1 in
obesity may have causal roles in mitochondrial dysfunction and insulin resistance
seen in diabetes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08991 
PMID: 20357764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1362-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08901. Epub 2010 Mar 3.

IL25 elicits a multipotent progenitor cell population that promotes T(H)2
cytokine responses.

Saenz SA(1), Siracusa MC, Perrigoue JG, Spencer SP, Urban JF Jr, Tocker JE,
Budelsky AL, Kleinschek MA, Kastelein RA, Kambayashi T, Bhandoola A, Artis D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathobiology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1285-6.

CD4(+) T helper 2 (T(H)2) cells secrete interleukin (IL)4, IL5 and IL13, and are 
required for immunity to gastrointestinal helminth infections. However, T(H)2
cells also promote chronic inflammation associated with asthma and allergic
disorders. The non-haematopoietic-cell-derived cytokines thymic stromal
lymphopoietin, IL33 and IL25 (also known as IL17E) have been implicated in
inducing T(H)2 cell-dependent inflammation at mucosal sites, but how these
cytokines influence innate immune responses remains poorly defined. Here we show 
that IL25, a member of the IL17 cytokine family, promotes the accumulation of a
lineage-negative (Lin(-)) multipotent progenitor (MPP) cell population in the
gut-associated lymphoid tissue that promotes T(H)2 cytokine responses. The
IL25-elicited cell population, termed MPP(type2) cells, was defined by the
expression of Sca-1 (also known as Ly6a) and intermediate expression of c-Kit
(c-Kit(int)), and exhibited multipotent capacity, giving rise to cells of
monocyte/macrophage and granulocyte lineages both in vitro and in vivo. Progeny
of MPP(type2) cells were competent antigen presenting cells, and adoptive
transfer of MPP(type2) cells could promote T(H)2 cytokine responses and confer
protective immunity to helminth infection in normally susceptible Il25(-/-) mice.
The ability of IL25 to induce the emergence of an MPP(type2) cell population
identifies a link between the IL17 cytokine family and extramedullary
haematopoiesis, and suggests a previously unrecognized innate immune pathway that
promotes T(H)2 cytokine responses at mucosal sites.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08901 
PMCID: PMC2861732
PMID: 20200520  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1367-70. doi: 10.1038/nature08900. Epub 2010 Mar 3.

Nuocytes represent a new innate effector leukocyte that mediates type-2 immunity.

Neill DR(1), Wong SH, Bellosi A, Flynn RJ, Daly M, Langford TK, Bucks C, Kane CM,
Fallon PG, Pannell R, Jolin HE, McKenzie AN.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1285-6.

Innate immunity provides the first line of defence against invading pathogens and
provides important cues for the development of adaptive immunity. Type-2
immunity-responsible for protective immune responses to helminth parasites and
the underlying cause of the pathogenesis of allergic asthma-consists of responses
dominated by the cardinal type-2 cytokines interleukin (IL)4, IL5 and IL13 (ref. 
5). T cells are an important source of these cytokines in adaptive immune
responses, but the innate cell sources remain to be comprehensively determined.
Here, through the use of novel Il13-eGFP reporter mice, we present the
identification and functional characterization of a new innate type-2 immune
effector leukocyte that we have named the nuocyte. Nuocytes expand in vivo in
response to the type-2-inducing cytokines IL25 and IL33, and represent the
predominant early source of IL13 during helminth infection with Nippostrongylus
brasiliensis. In the combined absence of IL25 and IL33 signalling, nuocytes fail 
to expand, resulting in a severe defect in worm expulsion that is rescued by the 
adoptive transfer of in vitro cultured wild-type, but not IL13-deficient,
nuocytes. Thus, nuocytes represent a critically important innate effector cell in
type-2 immunity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08900 
PMCID: PMC2862165
PMID: 20200518  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1192-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08963.

Listeria monocytogenes impairs SUMOylation for efficient infection.

Ribet D(1), Hamon M, Gouin E, Nahori MA, Impens F, Neyret-Kahn H, Gevaert K,
Vandekerckhove J, Dejean A, Cossart P.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Pasteur, Unité des Interactions Bactéries-Cellules, Département de
Biologie Cellulaire et Infection, F-75015 Paris, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1138-9.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2010 Jun;11(6):387.

During infection, pathogenic bacteria manipulate the host cell in various ways to
allow their own replication, propagation and escape from host immune responses.
Post-translational modifications are unique mechanisms that allow cells to
rapidly, locally and specifically modify activity or interactions of key
proteins. Some of these modifications, including phosphorylation and
ubiquitylation, can be induced by pathogens. However, the effects of pathogenic
bacteria on SUMOylation, an essential post-translational modification in
eukaryotic cells, remain largely unknown. Here we show that infection with
Listeria monocytogenes leads to a decrease in the levels of cellular
SUMO-conjugated proteins. This event is triggered by the bacterial virulence
factor listeriolysin O (LLO), which induces a proteasome-independent degradation 
of Ubc9, an essential enzyme of the SUMOylation machinery, and a
proteasome-dependent degradation of some SUMOylated proteins. The effect of LLO
on Ubc9 is dependent on the pore-forming capacity of the toxin and is shared by
other bacterial pore-forming toxins like perfringolysin O (PFO) and pneumolysin
(PLY). Ubc9 degradation was also observed in vivo in infected mice. Furthermore, 
we show that SUMO overexpression impairs bacterial infection. Together, our
results reveal that Listeria, and probably other pathogens, dampen the host
response by decreasing the SUMOylation level of proteins critical for infection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08963 
PMCID: PMC3627292
PMID: 20414307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1178-81. doi: 10.1038/nature08985.

Stoichiometric control of organic carbon-nitrate relationships from soils to the 
sea.

Taylor PG(1), Townsend AR.

Author information: 
(1)INSTAAR, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado, USA.
philip.taylor@colorado.edu

The production of artificial fertilizers, fossil fuel use and leguminous
agriculture worldwide has increased the amount of reactive nitrogen in the
natural environment by an order of magnitude since the Industrial Revolution.
This reorganization of the nitrogen cycle has led to an increase in food
production, but increasingly causes a number of environmental problems. One such 
problem is the accumulation of nitrate in both freshwater and coastal marine
ecosystems. Here we establish that ecosystem nitrate accrual exhibits consistent 
and negative nonlinear correlations with organic carbon availability along a
hydrologic continuum from soils, through freshwater systems and coastal margins, 
to the open ocean. The trend also prevails in ecosystems subject to substantial
human alteration. Across this diversity of environments, we find evidence that
resource stoichiometry (organic carbon:nitrate) strongly influences nitrate
accumulation by regulating a suite of microbial processes that couple dissolved
organic carbon and nitrate cycling. With the help of a meta-analysis we show that
heterotrophic microbes maintain low nitrate concentrations when organic
carbon:nitrate ratios match the stoichiometric demands of microbial anabolism.
When resource ratios drop below the minimum carbon:nitrogen ratio of microbial
biomass, however, the onset of carbon limitation appears to drive rapid nitrate
accrual, which may then be further enhanced by nitrification. At low organic
carbon:nitrate ratios, denitrification appears to constrain the extent of nitrate
accretion, once organic carbon and nitrate availability approach the 1:1
stoichiometry of this catabolic process. Collectively, these microbial processes 
express themselves on local to global scales by restricting the threshold ratios 
underlying nitrate accrual to a constrained stoichiometric window. Our findings
indicate that ecological stoichiometry can help explain the fate of nitrate
across disparate environments and in the face of human disturbance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08985 
PMID: 20414306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1174-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08986.

Substrate-enhanced supercooling in AuSi eutectic droplets.

Schülli TU(1), Daudin R, Renaud G, Vaysset A, Geaymond O, Pasturel A.

Author information: 
(1)CEA, Institut Nanosciences et Cryogénie, SP2M, 17 rue des Martyrs, 38054
Grenoble, France. schulli@esrf.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1137-8.

The phenomenon of supercooling in metals-that is, the preservation of a
disordered, fluid phase in a metastable state well below the melting point-has
led to speculation that local atomic structure configurations of dense,
symmetric, but non-periodic packing act as the main barrier for crystal
nucleation. For liquids in contact with solids, crystalline surfaces induce
layering of the adjacent atoms in the liquid and may prevent or lower
supercooling. This seed effect is supposed to depend on the local lateral order
adopted in the last atomic layers of the liquid in contact with the crystal.
Although it has been suggested that there might be a direct coupling between
surface-induced lateral order and supercooling, no experimental observation of
such lateral ordering at interfaces is available. Here we report supercooling in 
gold-silicon (AuSi) eutectic droplets, enhanced by a Au-induced (6 x 6)
reconstruction of the Si(111) substrate. In situ X-ray scattering and ab initio
molecular dynamics reveal that pentagonal atomic arrangements of Au atoms at this
interface favour a lateral-ordering stabilization process of the liquid phase.
This interface-enhanced stabilization of the liquid state shows the importance of
the solid-liquid interaction for the structure of the adjacent liquid layers.
Such processes are important for present and future technologies, as fluidity and
crystallization play a key part in soldering and casting, as well as in
processing and controlling chemical reactions for microfluidic devices or during 
the vapour-liquid-solid growth of semiconductor nanowires.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08986 
PMID: 20414305 


618. Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1161-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09013.

Possible thermochemical disequilibrium in the atmosphere of the exoplanet GJ
436b.

Stevenson KB(1), Harrington J, Nymeyer S, Madhusudhan N, Seager S, Bowman WC,
Hardy RA, Deming D, Rauscher E, Lust NB.

Author information: 
(1)Planetary Sciences Group, Department of Physics, University of Central
Florida, Orlando, Florida 32816, USA. kevin218@knights.ucf.edu

The nearby extrasolar planet GJ 436b-which has been labelled as a 'hot
Neptune'-reveals itself by the dimming of light as it crosses in front of and
behind its parent star as seen from Earth. Respectively known as the primary
transit and secondary eclipse, the former constrains the planet's radius and
mass, and the latter constrains the planet's temperature and, with measurements
at multiple wavelengths, its atmospheric composition. Previous work using
transmission spectroscopy failed to detect the 1.4-mum water vapour band, leaving
the planet's atmospheric composition poorly constrained. Here we report the
detection of planetary thermal emission from the dayside of GJ 436b at multiple
infrared wavelengths during the secondary eclipse. The best-fit compositional
models contain a high CO abundance and a substantial methane (CH(4)) deficiency
relative to thermochemical equilibrium models for the predicted
hydrogen-dominated atmosphere. Moreover, we report the presence of some H(2)O and
traces of CO(2). Because CH(4) is expected to be the dominant carbon-bearing
species, disequilibrium processes such as vertical mixing and polymerization of
methane into substances such as ethylene may be required to explain the hot
Neptune's small CH(4)-to-CO ratio, which is at least 10(5) times smaller than
predicted.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09013 
PMID: 20414304 


619. Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1155-60. doi: 10.1038/nature08935.

Lateral competition for cortical space by layer-specific horizontal circuits.

Adesnik H(1), Scanziani M.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Center for Neural Circuits and Behavior,
Neurobiology Section and Department of Neurosciences, University of California
San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093-0634, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1134-6.

The cerebral cortex constructs a coherent representation of the world by
integrating distinct features of the sensory environment. Although these features
are processed vertically across cortical layers, horizontal projections
interconnecting neighbouring cortical domains allow these features to be
processed in a context-dependent manner. Despite the wealth of physiological and 
psychophysical studies addressing the function of horizontal projections, how
they coordinate activity among cortical domains remains poorly understood. We
addressed this question by selectively activating horizontal projection neurons
in mouse somatosensory cortex, and determined how the resulting spatial pattern
of excitation and inhibition affects cortical activity. We found that horizontal 
projections suppress superficial layers while simultaneously activating deeper
cortical output layers. This layer-specific modulation does not result from a
spatial separation of excitation and inhibition, but from a layer-specific ratio 
between these two opposing conductances. Through this mechanism, cortical domains
exploit horizontal projections to compete for cortical space.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08935 
PMCID: PMC2908490
PMID: 20414303  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1214-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08926. Epub 2010 Apr 11.

Ku is a 5'-dRP/AP lyase that excises nucleotide damage near broken ends.

Roberts SA(1), Strande N, Burkhalter MD, Strom C, Havener JM, Hasty P, Ramsden
DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer
Center, and Curriculum in Genetics and Molecular Biology, University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.

Mammalian cells require non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) for the efficient
repair of chromosomal DNA double-strand breaks. A key feature of biological
sources of strand breaks is associated nucleotide damage, including base loss
(abasic or apurinic/apyrimidinic (AP) sites). At single-strand breaks,
5'-terminal abasic sites are excised by the 5'-deoxyribose-5-phosphate (5'-dRP)
lyase activity of DNA polymerase beta (pol beta): here we show, in vitro and in
cells, that accurate and efficient repair by NHEJ of double-strand breaks with
such damage similarly requires 5'-dRP/AP lyase activity. Classically defined NHEJ
is moreover uniquely effective at coupling this end-cleaning step to joining in
cells, helping to distinguish this pathway from otherwise robust alternative NHEJ
pathways. The NHEJ factor Ku can be identified as an effective 5'-dRP/AP lyase.
In a similar manner to other lyases, Ku nicks DNA 3' of an abasic site by a
mechanism involving a Schiff-base covalent intermediate with the abasic site. We 
show by using cell extracts that Ku is essential for the efficient removal of AP 
sites near double-strand breaks and, consistent with this result, that joining of
such breaks is specifically decreased in cells complemented with a
lyase-attenuated Ku mutant. Ku had previously been presumed only to recognize
ends and recruit other factors that process ends; our data support an unexpected 
direct role for Ku in end-processing steps as well.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08926 
PMCID: PMC2859099
PMID: 20383123  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1218-22. doi: 10.1038/nature08892. Epub 2010 Apr 7.

Super-resolution biomolecular crystallography with low-resolution data.

Schröder GF(1), Levitt M, Brunger AT.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Strukturbiologie und Biophysik (ISB-3), Forschungszentrum Jülich,
52425 Jülich, Germany. gu.schroeder@fz-juelich.de

Comment in
    Structure. 2010 Jun 9;18(6):664-5.

X-ray diffraction plays a pivotal role in the understanding of biological systems
by revealing atomic structures of proteins, nucleic acids and their complexes,
with much recent interest in very large assemblies like the ribosome. As crystals
of such large assemblies often diffract weakly (resolution worse than 4 A), we
need methods that work at such low resolution. In macromolecular assemblies, some
of the components may be known at high resolution, whereas others are unknown:
current refinement methods fail as they require a high-resolution starting
structure for the entire complex. Determining the structure of such complexes,
which are often of key biological importance, should be possible in principle as 
the number of independent diffraction intensities at a resolution better than 5 A
generally exceeds the number of degrees of freedom. Here we introduce a method
that adds specific information from known homologous structures but allows global
and local deformations of these homology models. Our approach uses the
observation that local protein structure tends to be conserved as sequence and
function evolve. Cross-validation with R(free) (the free R-factor) determines the
optimum deformation and influence of the homology model. For test cases at 3.5-5 
A resolution with known structures at high resolution, our method gives
significant improvements over conventional refinement in the model as monitored
by coordinate accuracy, the definition of secondary structure and the quality of 
electron density maps. For re-refinements of a representative set of 19
low-resolution crystal structures from the Protein Data Bank, we find similar
improvements. Thus, a structure derived from low-resolution diffraction data can 
have quality similar to a high-resolution structure. Our method is applicable to 
the study of weakly diffracting crystals using X-ray micro-diffraction as well as
data from new X-ray light sources. Use of homology information is not restricted 
to X-ray crystallography and cryo-electron microscopy: as optical imaging
advances to subnanometre resolution, it can use similar tools.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08892 
PMCID: PMC2859093
PMID: 20376006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1182-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08897. Epub 2010 Apr 7.

Learning-related fine-scale specificity imaged in motor cortex circuits of
behaving mice.

Komiyama T(1), Sato TR, O'Connor DH, Zhang YX, Huber D, Hooks BM, Gabitto M,
Svoboda K.

Author information: 
(1)Janelia Farm Research Campus, HHMI, Ashburn, Virginia 20147, USA.
komiyamat@janelia.hhmi.org

Cortical neurons form specific circuits, but the functional structure of this
microarchitecture and its relation to behaviour are poorly understood. Two-photon
calcium imaging can monitor activity of spatially defined neuronal ensembles in
the mammalian cortex. Here we applied this technique to the motor cortex of mice 
performing a choice behaviour. Head-fixed mice were trained to lick in response
to one of two odours, and to withhold licking for the other odour. Mice routinely
showed significant learning within the first behavioural session and across
sessions. Microstimulation and trans-synaptic tracing identified two
non-overlapping candidate tongue motor cortical areas. Inactivating either area
impaired voluntary licking. Imaging in layer 2/3 showed neurons with diverse
response types in both areas. Activity in approximately half of the imaged
neurons distinguished trial types associated with different actions. Many neurons
showed modulation coinciding with or preceding the action, consistent with their 
involvement in motor control. Neurons with different response types were
spatially intermingled. Nearby neurons (within approximately 150 mum) showed
pronounced coincident activity. These temporal correlations increased with
learning within and across behavioural sessions, specifically for neuron pairs
with similar response types. We propose that correlated activity in specific
ensembles of functionally related neurons is a signature of learning-related
circuit plasticity. Our findings reveal a fine-scale and dynamic organization of 
the frontal cortex that probably underlies flexible behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08897 
PMID: 20376005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1143-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08896. Epub 2010 Apr 7.

Generation of a novel wing colour pattern by the Wingless morphogen.

Werner T(1), Koshikawa S, Williams TM, Carroll SB.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Laboratory of Molecular Biology,
University of Wisconsin, 1525 Linden Drive, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA.

The complex, geometric colour patterns of many animal bodies have important roles
in behaviour and ecology. The generation of certain patterns has been the subject
of considerable theoretical exploration, however, very little is known about the 
actual mechanisms underlying colour pattern formation or evolution. Here we have 
investigated the generation and evolution of the complex, spotted wing pattern of
Drosophila guttifera. We show that wing spots are induced by the Wingless
morphogen, which is expressed at many discrete sites that are specified by
pre-existing positional information that governs the development of wing
structures. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the elaborate spot pattern evolved
from simpler schemes by co-option of Wingless expression at new sites. This
example of a complex design developing and evolving by the layering of new
patterns on pre-patterns is likely to be a general theme in other animals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08896 
PMID: 20376004  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1205-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08921. Epub 2010 Apr 7.

Crystal structure of the FTO protein reveals basis for its substrate specificity.

Han Z(1), Niu T, Chang J, Lei X, Zhao M, Wang Q, Cheng W, Wang J, Feng Y, Chai J.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Biological Sciences, No. 7 Science Park Road, Beijing
102206, China.

Recent studies have unequivocally associated the fat mass and obesity-associated 
(FTO) gene with the risk of obesity. In vitro FTO protein is an AlkB-like DNA/RNA
demethylase with a strong preference for 3-methylthymidine (3-meT) in
single-stranded DNA or 3-methyluracil (3-meU) in single-stranded RNA. Here we
report the crystal structure of FTO in complex with the mononucleotide 3-meT. FTO
comprises an amino-terminal AlkB-like domain and a carboxy-terminal domain with a
novel fold. Biochemical assays show that these two domains interact with each
other, which is required for FTO catalytic activity. In contrast with the
structures of other AlkB members, FTO possesses an extra loop covering one side
of the conserved jelly-roll motif. Structural comparison shows that this loop
selectively competes with the unmethylated strand of the DNA duplex for binding
to FTO, suggesting that it has an important role in FTO selection against
double-stranded nucleic acids. The ability of FTO to distinguish 3-meT or 3-meU
from other nucleotides is conferred by its hydrogen-bonding interaction with the 
two carbonyl oxygen atoms in 3-meT or 3-meU. Taken together, these results
provide a structural basis for understanding FTO substrate-specificity, and serve
as a foundation for the rational design of FTO inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08921 
PMID: 20376003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1210-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08885. Epub 2010 Apr 4.

Isolation of the elusive supercomplex that drives cyclic electron flow in
photosynthesis.

Iwai M(1), Takizawa K, Tokutsu R, Okamuro A, Takahashi Y, Minagawa J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Low Temperature Science, Hokkaido University, Sapporo 060-0819,
Japan.

Photosynthetic light reactions establish electron flow in the chloroplast's
thylakoid membranes, leading to the production of the ATP and NADPH that
participate in carbon fixation. Two modes of electron flow exist-linear electron 
flow (LEF) from water to NADP(+) via photosystem (PS) II and PSI in series and
cyclic electron flow (CEF) around PSI (ref. 2). Although CEF is essential for
satisfying the varying demand for ATP, the exact molecule(s) and operational site
are as yet unclear. In the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, the electron
flow shifts from LEF to CEF on preferential excitation of PSII (ref. 3), which is
brought about by an energy balancing mechanism between PSII and PSI (state
transitions). Here, we isolated a protein supercomplex composed of PSI with its
own light-harvesting complex (LHCI), the PSII light-harvesting complex (LHCII),
the cytochrome b(6)f complex (Cyt bf), ferredoxin (Fd)-NADPH oxidoreductase
(FNR), and the integral membrane protein PGRL1 (ref. 5) from C. reinhardtii cells
under PSII-favouring conditions. Spectroscopic analyses indicated that on
illumination, reducing equivalents from downstream of PSI were transferred to Cyt
bf, whereas oxidised PSI was re-reduced by reducing equivalents from Cyt bf,
indicating that this supercomplex is engaged in CEF (Supplementary Fig. 1). Thus,
formation and dissociation of the PSI-LHCI-LHCII-FNR-Cyt bf-PGRL1 supercomplex
not only controlled the energy balance of the two photosystems, but also switched
the mode of photosynthetic electron flow.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08885 
PMID: 20364124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1196-200. doi: 10.1038/nature08889. Epub 2010 Apr
4.

MicroRNA-mediated integration of haemodynamics and Vegf signalling during
angiogenesis.

Nicoli S(1), Standley C, Walker P, Hurlstone A, Fogarty KE, Lawson ND.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Gene Function and Expression, University of Massachusetts Medical
School, Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 16;467(7313):356.

Comment in
    Circ Res. 2010 Sep 3;107(5):570-2.

Within the circulatory system, blood flow regulates vascular remodelling,
stimulates blood stem cell formation, and has a role in the pathology of vascular
disease. During vertebrate embryogenesis, vascular patterning is initially guided
by conserved genetic pathways that act before circulation. Subsequently,
endothelial cells must incorporate the mechanosensory stimulus of blood flow with
these early signals to shape the embryonic vascular system. However, few details 
are known about how these signals are integrated during development. To
investigate this process, we focused on the aortic arch (AA) blood vessels, which
are known to remodel in response to blood flow. By using two-photon imaging of
live zebrafish embryos, we observe that flow is essential for angiogenesis during
AA development. We further find that angiogenic sprouting of AA vessels requires 
a flow-induced genetic pathway in which the mechano-sensitive zinc finger
transcription factor klf2a induces expression of an endothelial-specific
microRNA, mir-126, to activate Vegf signalling. Taken together, our work
describes a novel genetic mechanism in which a microRNA facilitates integration
of a physiological stimulus with growth factor signalling in endothelial cells to
guide angiogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08889 
PMCID: PMC2914488
PMID: 20364122  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1149-54. doi: 10.1038/nature08894. Epub 2010 Apr 4.

Conversion of adult pancreatic alpha-cells to beta-cells after extreme beta-cell 
loss.

Thorel F(1), Népote V, Avril I, Kohno K, Desgraz R, Chera S, Herrera PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Physiology & Metabolism, University of Geneva Faculty of
Medicine, 1 rue Michel-Servet, CH-1211 Geneva 4, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1132-3.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2010 Aug;6(8):417.

Pancreatic insulin-producing beta-cells have a long lifespan, such that in
healthy conditions they replicate little during a lifetime. Nevertheless, they
show increased self-duplication after increased metabolic demand or after injury 
(that is, beta-cell loss). It is not known whether adult mammals can
differentiate (regenerate) new beta-cells after extreme, total beta-cell loss, as
in diabetes. This would indicate differentiation from precursors or another
heterologous (non-beta-cell) source. Here we show beta-cell regeneration in a
transgenic model of diphtheria-toxin-induced acute selective near-total beta-cell
ablation. If given insulin, the mice survived and showed beta-cell mass
augmentation with time. Lineage-tracing to label the glucagon-producing
alpha-cells before beta-cell ablation tracked large fractions of regenerated
beta-cells as deriving from alpha-cells, revealing a previously disregarded
degree of pancreatic cell plasticity. Such inter-endocrine spontaneous adult cell
conversion could be harnessed towards methods of producing beta-cells for
diabetes therapies, either in differentiation settings in vitro or in induced
regeneration.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08894 
PMCID: PMC2877635
PMID: 20364121  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1201-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08890. Epub 2010 Mar 31.

Caspase activation precedes and leads to tangles.

de Calignon A(1), Fox LM, Pitstick R, Carlson GA, Bacskai BJ, Spires-Jones TL,
Hyman BT.

Author information: 
(1)MassGeneral Institute for Neurodegenerative Disease, Department of Neurology, 
Alzheimer's Disease Research Laboratory, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Charlestown, Massachusetts 02129, USA.

Studies of post-mortem tissue have shown that the location of fibrillar tau
deposits, called neurofibrillary tangles (NFT), matches closely with regions of
massive neuronal death, severe cytological abnormalities, and markers of caspase 
activation and apoptosis, leading to the idea that tangles cause
neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease and tau-related frontotemporal dementia.
However, using in vivo multiphoton imaging to observe tangles and activation of
executioner caspases in living tau transgenic mice (Tg4510 strain), we find the
opposite: caspase activation occurs first, and precedes tangle formation by hours
to days. New tangles form within a day. After a new tangle forms, the neuron
remains alive and caspase activity seems to be suppressed. Similarly,
introduction of wild-type 4-repeat tau (tau-4R) into wild-type animals triggered 
caspase activation, tau truncation and tau aggregation. Adeno-associated
virus-mediated expression of a construct mimicking caspase-cleaved tau into
wild-type mice led to the appearance of intracellular aggregates, tangle-related 
conformational- and phospho-epitopes, and the recruitment of full-length
endogenous tau to the aggregates. On the basis of these data, we propose a new
model in which caspase activation cleaves tau to initiate tangle formation, then 
truncated tau recruits normal tau to misfold and form tangles. Because
tangle-bearing neurons are long-lived, we suggest that tangles are 'off pathway' 
to acute neuronal death. Soluble tau species, rather than fibrillar tau, may be
the critical toxic moiety underlying neurodegeneration.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08890 
PMCID: PMC3091360
PMID: 20357768  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1165-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08919. Epub 2010 Mar 31.

Nonlinear atom interferometer surpasses classical precision limit.

Gross C(1), Zibold T, Nicklas E, Estève J, Oberthaler MK.

Author information: 
(1)Kirchhoff-Institut für Physik, Universität Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld
227, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1133-4.

Interference is fundamental to wave dynamics and quantum mechanics. The quantum
wave properties of particles are exploited in metrology using atom
interferometers, allowing for high-precision inertia measurements. Furthermore,
the state-of-the-art time standard is based on an interferometric technique known
as Ramsey spectroscopy. However, the precision of an interferometer is limited by
classical statistics owing to the finite number of atoms used to deduce the
quantity of interest. Here we show experimentally that the classical precision
limit can be surpassed using nonlinear atom interferometry with a Bose-Einstein
condensate. Controlled interactions between the atoms lead to non-classical
entangled states within the interferometer; this represents an alternative
approach to the use of non-classical input states. Extending quantum
interferometry to the regime of large atom number, we find that phase sensitivity
is enhanced by 15 per cent relative to that in an ideal classical measurement.
Our nonlinear atomic beam splitter follows the 'one-axis-twisting' scheme and
implements interaction control using a narrow Feshbach resonance. We perform
noise tomography of the quantum state within the interferometer and detect
coherent spin squeezing with a squeezing factor of -8.2 dB (refs 11-15). The
results provide information on the many-particle quantum state, and imply the
entanglement of 170 atoms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08919 
PMID: 20357767 


630. Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1170-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08988. Epub 2010 Mar 31.

Atom-chip-based generation of entanglement for quantum metrology.

Riedel MF(1), Böhi P, Li Y, Hänsch TW, Sinatra A, Treutlein P.

Author information: 
(1)Fakultät für Physik, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, Schellingstrasse 4, 80799
München, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1133-4.

Atom chips provide a versatile quantum laboratory for experiments with ultracold 
atomic gases. They have been used in diverse experiments involving
low-dimensional quantum gases, cavity quantum electrodynamics, atom-surface
interactions, and chip-based atomic clocks and interferometers. However, a severe
limitation of atom chips is that techniques to control atomic interactions and to
generate entanglement have not been experimentally available so far. Such
techniques enable chip-based studies of entangled many-body systems and are a key
prerequisite for atom chip applications in quantum simulations, quantum
information processing and quantum metrology. Here we report the experimental
generation of multi-particle entanglement on an atom chip by controlling elastic 
collisional interactions with a state-dependent potential. We use this technique 
to generate spin-squeezed states of a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate;
such states are a useful resource for quantum metrology. The observed reduction
in spin noise of -3.7 +/- 0.4 dB, combined with the spin coherence, implies
four-partite entanglement between the condensate atoms; this could be used to
improve an interferometric measurement by -2.5 +/- 0.6 dB over the standard
quantum limit. Our data show good agreement with a dynamical multi-mode
simulation and allow us to reconstruct the Wigner function of the spin-squeezed
condensate. The techniques reported here could be directly applied to chip-based 
atomic clocks, currently under development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08988 
PMID: 20357765 


631. Nature. 2010 Apr 22;464(7292):1187-91. doi: 10.1038/nature08934. Epub 2010 Mar
17.

Genetic analysis of variation in transcription factor binding in yeast.

Zheng W(1), Zhao H, Mancera E, Steinmetz LM, Snyder M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, Yale University, 
New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

Variation in transcriptional regulation is thought to be a major cause of
phenotypic diversity. Although widespread differences in gene expression among
individuals of a species have been observed, studies to examine the variability
of transcription factor binding on a global scale have not been performed, and
thus the extent and underlying genetic basis of transcription factor binding
diversity is unknown. By mapping differences in transcription factor binding
among individuals, here we present the genetic basis of such variation on a
genome-wide scale. Whole-genome Ste12-binding profiles were determined using
chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled with DNA sequencing in pheromone-treated
cells of 43 segregants of a cross between two highly diverged yeast strains and
their parental lines. We identified extensive Ste12-binding variation among
individuals, and mapped underlying cis- and trans-acting loci responsible for
such variation. We showed that most transcription factor binding variation is
cis-linked, and that many variations are associated with polymorphisms residing
in the binding motifs of Ste12 as well as those of several proposed Ste12
cofactors. We also identified two trans-factors, AMN1 and FLO8, that modulate
Ste12 binding to promoters of more than ten genes under alpha-factor treatment.
Neither of these two genes was previously known to regulate Ste12, and we suggest
that they may be mediators of gene activity and phenotypic diversity. Ste12
binding strongly correlates with gene expression for more than 200 genes,
indicating that binding variation is functional. Many of the variable-bound genes
are involved in cell wall organization and biogenesis. Overall, these studies
identified genetic regulators of molecular diversity among individuals and
provide new insights into mechanisms of gene regulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08934 
PMCID: PMC2941147
PMID: 20237471  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):1082-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08924.

CpG islands influence chromatin structure via the CpG-binding protein Cfp1.

Thomson JP(1), Skene PJ, Selfridge J, Clouaire T, Guy J, Webb S, Kerr AR, Deaton 
A, Andrews R, James KD, Turner DJ, Illingworth R, Bird A.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Cell Biology, Michael Swann Building, University of 
Edinburgh, Mayfield Road, Edinburgh EH9 3JR, UK.

CpG islands (CGIs) are prominent in the mammalian genome owing to their GC-rich
base composition and high density of CpG dinucleotides. Most human gene promoters
are embedded within CGIs that lack DNA methylation and coincide with sites of
histone H3 lysine 4 trimethylation (H3K4me3), irrespective of transcriptional
activity. In spite of these intriguing correlations, the functional significance 
of non-methylated CGI sequences with respect to chromatin structure and
transcription is unknown. By performing a search for proteins that are common to 
all CGIs, here we show high enrichment for Cfp1, which selectively binds to
non-methylated CpGs in vitro. Chromatin immunoprecipitation of a mono-allelically
methylated CGI confirmed that Cfp1 specifically associates with non-methylated
CpG sites in vivo. High throughput sequencing of Cfp1-bound chromatin identified 
a notable concordance with non-methylated CGIs and sites of H3K4me3 in the mouse 
brain. Levels of H3K4me3 at CGIs were markedly reduced in Cfp1-depleted cells,
consistent with the finding that Cfp1 associates with the H3K4 methyltransferase 
Setd1 (refs 7, 8). To test whether non-methylated CpG-dense sequences are
sufficient to establish domains of H3K4me3, we analysed artificial CpG clusters
that were integrated into the mouse genome. Despite the absence of promoters, the
insertions recruited Cfp1 and created new peaks of H3K4me3. The data indicate
that a primary function of non-methylated CGIs is to genetically influence the
local chromatin modification state by interaction with Cfp1 and perhaps other
CpG-binding proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08924 
PMCID: PMC3730110
PMID: 20393567  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):1071-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08975.

Long non-coding RNA HOTAIR reprograms chromatin state to promote cancer
metastasis.

Gupta RA(1), Shah N, Wang KC, Kim J, Horlings HM, Wong DJ, Tsai MC, Hung T,
Argani P, Rinn JL, Wang Y, Brzoska P, Kong B, Li R, West RB, van de Vijver MJ,
Sukumar S, Chang HY.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Program in Epithelial Biology, California 
94305, USA.

Large intervening non-coding RNAs (lincRNAs) are pervasively transcribed in the
genome yet their potential involvement in human disease is not well understood.
Recent studies of dosage compensation, imprinting, and homeotic gene expression
suggest that individual lincRNAs can function as the interface between DNA and
specific chromatin remodelling activities. Here we show that lincRNAs in the HOX 
loci become systematically dysregulated during breast cancer progression. The
lincRNA termed HOTAIR is increased in expression in primary breast tumours and
metastases, and HOTAIR expression level in primary tumours is a powerful
predictor of eventual metastasis and death. Enforced expression of HOTAIR in
epithelial cancer cells induced genome-wide re-targeting of Polycomb repressive
complex 2 (PRC2) to an occupancy pattern more resembling embryonic fibroblasts,
leading to altered histone H3 lysine 27 methylation, gene expression, and
increased cancer invasiveness and metastasis in a manner dependent on PRC2.
Conversely, loss of HOTAIR can inhibit cancer invasiveness, particularly in cells
that possess excessive PRC2 activity. These findings indicate that lincRNAs have 
active roles in modulating the cancer epigenome and may be important targets for 
cancer diagnosis and therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08975 
PMCID: PMC3049919
PMID: 20393566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):1062-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08978.

Migrastatin analogues target fascin to block tumour metastasis.

Chen L(1), Yang S, Jakoncic J, Zhang JJ, Huang XY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Cornell University Weill Medical College, New York, 
New York 10065, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 11;476(7359):240.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2010 Jun;10(6):382.

Tumour metastasis is the primary cause of death of cancer patients. Development
of new therapeutics preventing tumour metastasis is urgently needed. Migrastatin 
is a natural product secreted by Streptomyces, and synthesized migrastatin
analogues such as macroketone are potent inhibitors of metastatic tumour cell
migration, invasion and metastasis. Here we show that these migrastatin analogues
target the actin-bundling protein fascin to inhibit its activity. X-ray crystal
structural studies reveal that migrastatin analogues bind to one of the
actin-binding sites on fascin. Our data demonstrate that actin cytoskeletal
proteins such as fascin can be explored as new molecular targets for cancer
treatment, in a similar manner to the microtubule protein tubulin.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08978 
PMCID: PMC2857318
PMID: 20393565  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):1052-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08878.

Therapeutic antibody targeting of individual Notch receptors.

Wu Y(1), Cain-Hom C, Choy L, Hagenbeek TJ, de Leon GP, Chen Y, Finkle D, Venook
R, Wu X, Ridgway J, Schahin-Reed D, Dow GJ, Shelton A, Stawicki S, Watts RJ,
Zhang J, Choy R, Howard P, Kadyk L, Yan M, Zha J, Callahan CA, Hymowitz SG,
Siebel CW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Antibody Engineering, Genentech, Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San
Francisco, California 94080, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2010 Jun;9(6):431.

The four receptors of the Notch family are widely expressed transmembrane
proteins that function as key conduits through which mammalian cells communicate 
to regulate cell fate and growth. Ligand binding triggers a conformational change
in the receptor negative regulatory region (NRR) that enables ADAM protease
cleavage at a juxtamembrane site that otherwise lies buried within the quiescent 
NRR. Subsequent intramembrane proteolysis catalysed by the gamma-secretase
complex liberates the intracellular domain (ICD) to initiate the downstream Notch
transcriptional program. Aberrant signalling through each receptor has been
linked to numerous diseases, particularly cancer, making the Notch pathway a
compelling target for new drugs. Although gamma-secretase inhibitors (GSIs) have 
progressed into the clinic, GSIs fail to distinguish individual Notch receptors, 
inhibit other signalling pathways and cause intestinal toxicity, attributed to
dual inhibition of Notch1 and 2 (ref. 11). To elucidate the discrete functions of
Notch1 and Notch2 and develop clinically relevant inhibitors that reduce
intestinal toxicity, we used phage display technology to generate highly
specialized antibodies that specifically antagonize each receptor paralogue and
yet cross-react with the human and mouse sequences, enabling the discrimination
of Notch1 versus Notch2 function in human patients and rodent models. Our
co-crystal structure shows that the inhibitory mechanism relies on stabilizing
NRR quiescence. Selective blocking of Notch1 inhibits tumour growth in
pre-clinical models through two mechanisms: inhibition of cancer cell growth and 
deregulation of angiogenesis. Whereas inhibition of Notch1 plus Notch2 causes
severe intestinal toxicity, inhibition of either receptor alone reduces or avoids
this effect, demonstrating a clear advantage over pan-Notch inhibitors. Our
studies emphasize the value of paralogue-specific antagonists in dissecting the
contributions of distinct Notch receptors to differentiation and disease and
reveal the therapeutic promise in targeting Notch1 and Notch2 independently.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08878 
PMID: 20393564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):1048-51. doi: 10.1038/nature08895.

Functional genomic screen for modulators of ciliogenesis and cilium length.

Kim J(1), Lee JE, Heynen-Genel S, Suyama E, Ono K, Lee K, Ideker T, Aza-Blanc P, 
Gleeson JG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences, Institute for Genomic Medicine, Howard Hughes
Medical Institute, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California
92093, USA.

Primary cilia are evolutionarily conserved cellular organelles that organize
diverse signalling pathways. Defects in the formation or function of primary
cilia are associated with a spectrum of human diseases and developmental
abnormalities. Genetic screens in model organisms have discovered core
machineries of cilium assembly and maintenance. However, regulatory molecules
that coordinate the biogenesis of primary cilia with other cellular processes,
including cytoskeletal organization, vesicle trafficking and cell-cell adhesion, 
remain to be identified. Here we report the results of a functional genomic
screen using RNA interference (RNAi) to identify human genes involved in
ciliogenesis control. The screen identified 36 positive and 13 negative
ciliogenesis modulators, which include molecules involved in actin dynamics and
vesicle trafficking. Further investigation demonstrated that blocking actin
assembly facilitates ciliogenesis by stabilizing the pericentrosomal preciliary
compartment (PPC), a previously uncharacterized compact vesiculotubular structure
storing transmembrane proteins destined for cilia during the early phase of
ciliogenesis. The PPC was labelled by recycling endosome markers. Moreover,
knockdown of modulators that are involved in the endocytic recycling pathway
affected the formation of the PPC as well as ciliogenesis. Our results uncover a 
critical regulatory step that couples actin dynamics and endocytic recycling with
ciliogenesis, and also provides potential target molecules for future study.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08895 
PMCID: PMC2929961
PMID: 20393563  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):1043-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08875.

APCDD1 is a novel Wnt inhibitor mutated in hereditary hypotrichosis simplex.

Shimomura Y(1), Agalliu D, Vonica A, Luria V, Wajid M, Baumer A, Belli S,
Petukhova L, Schinzel A, Brivanlou AH, Barres BA, Christiano AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Columbia University, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, 630 West 168th Street, VC15 204A, New York, New York 10032, USA.

Hereditary hypotrichosis simplex is a rare autosomal dominant form of hair loss
characterized by hair follicle miniaturization. Using genetic linkage analysis,
we mapped a new locus for the disease to chromosome 18p11.22, and identified a
mutation (Leu9Arg) in the adenomatosis polyposis down-regulated 1 (APCDD1) gene
in three families. We show that APCDD1 is a membrane-bound glycoprotein that is
abundantly expressed in human hair follicles, and can interact in vitro with
WNT3A and LRP5-two essential components of Wnt signalling. Functional studies
show that APCDD1 inhibits Wnt signalling in a cell-autonomous manner and
functions upstream of beta-catenin. Moreover, APCDD1 represses activation of Wnt 
reporters and target genes, and inhibits the biological effects of Wnt signalling
during both the generation of neurons from progenitors in the developing chick
nervous system, and axis specification in Xenopus laevis embryos. The mutation
Leu9Arg is located in the signal peptide of APCDD1, and perturbs its
translational processing from the endoplasmic reticulum to the plasma membrane.
APCDD1(L9R) probably functions in a dominant-negative manner to inhibit the
stability and membrane localization of the wild-type protein. These findings
describe a novel inhibitor of the Wnt signalling pathway with an essential role
in human hair growth. As APCDD1 is expressed in a broad repertoire of cell types,
our findings indicate that APCDD1 may regulate a diversity of biological
processes controlled by Wnt signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08875 
PMCID: PMC3046868
PMID: 20393562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):1039-42. doi: 10.1038/nature08923.

Dissection of genetically complex traits with extremely large pools of yeast
segregants.

Ehrenreich IM(1), Torabi N, Jia Y, Kent J, Martis S, Shapiro JA, Gresham D, Caudy
AA, Kruglyak L.

Author information: 
(1)Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey 08540, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):985-6.
    Nat Methods. 2010 Jun;7(6):424.

Most heritable traits, including many human diseases, are caused by multiple
loci. Studies in both humans and model organisms, such as yeast, have failed to
detect a large fraction of the loci that underlie such complex traits. A lack of 
statistical power to identify multiple loci with small effects is undoubtedly one
of the primary reasons for this problem. We have developed a method in yeast that
allows the use of much larger sample sizes than previously possible and hence
permits the detection of multiple loci with small effects. The method involves
generating very large numbers of progeny from a cross between two Saccharomyces
cerevisiae strains and then phenotyping and genotyping pools of these offspring. 
We applied the method to 17 chemical resistance traits and mitochondrial
function, and identified loci for each of these phenotypes. We show that the
level of genetic complexity underlying these quantitative traits is highly
variable, with some traits influenced by one major locus and others by at least
20 loci. Our results provide an empirical demonstration of the genetic complexity
of a number of traits and show that it is possible to identify many of the
underlying factors using straightforward techniques. Our method should have broad
applications in yeast and can be extended to other organisms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08923 
PMCID: PMC2862354
PMID: 20393561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):1029-32. doi: 10.1038/nature08952.

Phosphate oxygen isotopic evidence for a temperate and biologically active
Archaean ocean.

Blake RE(1), Chang SJ, Lepland A.

Author information: 
(1)Yale University, Department of Geology and Geophysics, New Haven, Connecticut 
06520-8109, USA. ruth.blake@yale.edu

Oxygen and silicon isotope compositions of cherts and studies of protein
evolution have been interpreted to reflect ocean temperatures of 55-85 degrees C 
during the early Palaeoarchaean era ( approximately 3.5 billion years ago). A
recent study combining oxygen and hydrogen isotope compositions of cherts,
however, makes a case for Archaean ocean temperatures being no greater than 40
degrees C (ref. 5). Ocean temperature can also be assessed using the oxygen
isotope composition of phosphate. Recent studies show that (18)O:(16)O ratios of 
dissolved inorganic phosphate (delta(18)O(P)) reflect ambient seawater
temperature as well as biological processing that dominates marine phosphorus
cycling at low temperature. All forms of life require and concentrate phosphorus,
and as a result of biological processing, modern marine phosphates have
delta(18)O(P) values typically between 19-26 per thousand (VSMOW), highly evolved
from presumed source values of approximately 6-8 per thousand that are
characteristic of apatite in igneous rocks and meteorites. Here we report oxygen 
isotope compositions of phosphates in sediments from the 3.2-3.5-billion-year-old
Barberton Greenstone Belt in South Africa. We find that delta(18)O(P) values
range from 9.3 per thousand to 19.9 per thousand and include the highest values
reported for Archaean rocks. The temperatures calculated from our highest
delta(18)O(P) values and assuming equilibrium with sea water with delta(18)O = 0 
per thousand (ref. 12) range from 26 degrees C to 35 degrees C. The higher
delta(18)O(P) values are similar to those of modern marine phosphate and suggest 
a well-developed phosphorus cycle and evolved biologic activity on the Archaean
Earth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08952 
PMID: 20393560  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):1025-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08932.

Catastrophic cascade of failures in interdependent networks.

Buldyrev SV(1), Parshani R, Paul G, Stanley HE, Havlin S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Yeshiva University, 500 West 185th Street, New York,
New York 10033, USA. buldyrev@yu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):984-5.

Complex networks have been studied intensively for a decade, but research still
focuses on the limited case of a single, non-interacting network. Modern systems 
are coupled together and therefore should be modelled as interdependent networks.
A fundamental property of interdependent networks is that failure of nodes in one
network may lead to failure of dependent nodes in other networks. This may happen
recursively and can lead to a cascade of failures. In fact, a failure of a very
small fraction of nodes in one network may lead to the complete fragmentation of 
a system of several interdependent networks. A dramatic real-world example of a
cascade of failures ('concurrent malfunction') is the electrical blackout that
affected much of Italy on 28 September 2003: the shutdown of power stations
directly led to the failure of nodes in the Internet communication network, which
in turn caused further breakdown of power stations. Here we develop a framework
for understanding the robustness of interacting networks subject to such
cascading failures. We present exact analytical solutions for the critical
fraction of nodes that, on removal, will lead to a failure cascade and to a
complete fragmentation of two interdependent networks. Surprisingly, a broader
degree distribution increases the vulnerability of interdependent networks to
random failure, which is opposite to how a single network behaves. Our findings
highlight the need to consider interdependent network properties in designing
robust networks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08932 
PMID: 20393559 


641. Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):1021-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09008.

Random numbers certified by Bell's theorem.

Pironio S(1), Acín A, Massar S, de la Giroday AB, Matsukevich DN, Maunz P,
Olmschenk S, Hayes D, Luo L, Manning TA, Monroe C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire d'Information Quantique, CP 225, Université Libre de Bruxelles,
Bvd Du Triomphe, 1050 Bruxelles, Belgium.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):988-9.

Randomness is a fundamental feature of nature and a valuable resource for
applications ranging from cryptography and gambling to numerical simulation of
physical and biological systems. Random numbers, however, are difficult to
characterize mathematically, and their generation must rely on an unpredictable
physical process. Inaccuracies in the theoretical modelling of such processes or 
failures of the devices, possibly due to adversarial attacks, limit the
reliability of random number generators in ways that are difficult to control and
detect. Here, inspired by earlier work on non-locality-based and
device-independent quantum information processing, we show that the non-local
correlations of entangled quantum particles can be used to certify the presence
of genuine randomness. It is thereby possible to design a cryptographically
secure random number generator that does not require any assumption about the
internal working of the device. Such a strong form of randomness generation is
impossible classically and possible in quantum systems only if certified by a
Bell inequality violation. We carry out a proof-of-concept demonstration of this 
proposal in a system of two entangled atoms separated by approximately one metre.
The observed Bell inequality violation, featuring near perfect detection
efficiency, guarantees that 42 new random numbers are generated with 99 per cent 
confidence. Our results lay the groundwork for future device-independent quantum 
information experiments and for addressing fundamental issues raised by the
intrinsic randomness of quantum theory.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09008 
PMID: 20393558 


642. Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):1018-20. doi: 10.1038/nature09007.

An image of an exoplanet separated by two diffraction beamwidths from a star.

Serabyn E(1), Mawet D, Burruss R.

Author information: 
(1)Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, 4800 Oak Grove 
Drive, Pasadena, California 91109, USA. gene.serabyn@jpl.nasa.gov

Three exoplanets around the star HR 8799 have recently been discovered by means
of differential imaging with large telescopes. Bright scattered starlight limits 
high-contrast imaging to large angular offsets, currently of the order of ten
diffraction beamwidths, 10lambda/D, of the star (where lambda is the wavelength
and D is the aperture diameter). Imaging faint planets at smaller angles calls
for reducing the starlight and associated photon and speckle noise before
detection, while efficiently transmitting nearby planet light. To carry out
initial demonstrations of reduced-angle high-contrast coronagraphy, we installed 
a vortex coronagraph capable of reaching small angles behind a small,
well-corrected telescope subaperture that provides low levels of scattered
starlight. Here we report the detection of all three HR 8799 planets with the
resultant small-aperture (1.5 m) system, for which only 2lambda/D separate the
innermost planet from the star, with a final noise level within a factor of two
of that given by photon statistics. Similar well-corrected small-angle
coronagraphs should thus be able to detect exoplanets located even closer to
their host stars with larger ground-based telescopes, and also allow a reduction 
in the size of potential space telescopes aimed at the imaging of very faint
terrestrial planets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09007 
PMID: 20393557 


643. Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):1012-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08925.

Real-time tRNA transit on single translating ribosomes at codon resolution.

Uemura S(1), Aitken CE, Korlach J, Flusberg BA, Turner SW, Puglisi JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Structural Biology, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, California 94305-5126, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):987-8.
    Nat Methods. 2010 Jun;7(6):422-3.

Translation by the ribosome occurs by a complex mechanism involving the
coordinated interaction of multiple nucleic acid and protein ligands. Here we use
zero-mode waveguides (ZMWs) and sophisticated detection instrumentation to allow 
real-time observation of translation at physiologically relevant micromolar
ligand concentrations. Translation at each codon is monitored by stable binding
of transfer RNAs (tRNAs)-labelled with distinct fluorophores-to translating
ribosomes, which allows direct detection of the identity of tRNA molecules bound 
to the ribosome and therefore the underlying messenger RNA (mRNA) sequence. We
observe the transit of tRNAs on single translating ribosomes and determine the
number of tRNA molecules simultaneously bound to the ribosome, at each codon of
an mRNA molecule. Our results show that ribosomes are only briefly occupied by
two tRNA molecules and that release of deacylated tRNA from the exit (E) site is 
uncoupled from binding of aminoacyl-tRNA site (A-site) tRNA and occurs rapidly
after translocation. The methods outlined here have broad application to the
study of mRNA sequences, and the mechanism and regulation of translation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08925 
PMCID: PMC4466108
PMID: 20393556  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):999-1005. doi: 10.1038/nature08989.

Genome remodelling in a basal-like breast cancer metastasis and xenograft.

Ding L(1), Ellis MJ, Li S, Larson DE, Chen K, Wallis JW, Harris CC, McLellan MD, 
Fulton RS, Fulton LL, Abbott RM, Hoog J, Dooling DJ, Koboldt DC, Schmidt H,
Kalicki J, Zhang Q, Chen L, Lin L, Wendl MC, McMichael JF, Magrini VJ, Cook L,
McGrath SD, Vickery TL, Appelbaum E, Deschryver K, Davies S, Guintoli T, Lin L,
Crowder R, Tao Y, Snider JE, Smith SM, Dukes AF, Sanderson GE, Pohl CS,
Delehaunty KD, Fronick CC, Pape KA, Reed JS, Robinson JS, Hodges JS, Schierding
W, Dees ND, Shen D, Locke DP, Wiechert ME, Eldred JM, Peck JB, Oberkfell BJ,
Lolofie JT, Du F, Hawkins AE, O'Laughlin MD, Bernard KE, Cunningham M, Elliott G,
Mason MD, Thompson DM Jr, Ivanovich JL, Goodfellow PJ, Perou CM, Weinstock GM,
Aft R, Watson M, Ley TJ, Wilson RK, Mardis ER.

Author information: 
(1)The Genome Center at Washington University, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.

Comment in
    Clin Chem. 2015 May;61(5):769-70.
    Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):989-90.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2010 Jun;10(6):384.

Massively parallel DNA sequencing technologies provide an unprecedented ability
to screen entire genomes for genetic changes associated with tumour progression. 
Here we describe the genomic analyses of four DNA samples from an
African-American patient with basal-like breast cancer: peripheral blood, the
primary tumour, a brain metastasis and a xenograft derived from the primary
tumour. The metastasis contained two de novo mutations and a large deletion not
present in the primary tumour, and was significantly enriched for 20 shared
mutations. The xenograft retained all primary tumour mutations and displayed a
mutation enrichment pattern that resembled the metastasis. Two overlapping large 
deletions, encompassing CTNNA1, were present in all three tumour samples. The
differential mutation frequencies and structural variation patterns in metastasis
and xenograft compared with the primary tumour indicate that secondary tumours
may arise from a minority of cells within the primary tumour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08989 
PMCID: PMC2872544
PMID: 20393555  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):993-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08987.

International network of cancer genome projects.

International Cancer Genome Consortium, Hudson TJ, Anderson W, Artez A, Barker
AD, Bell C, Bernabé RR, Bhan MK, Calvo F, Eerola I, Gerhard DS, Guttmacher A,
Guyer M, Hemsley FM, Jennings JL, Kerr D, Klatt P, Kolar P, Kusada J, Lane DP,
Laplace F, Youyong L, Nettekoven G, Ozenberger B, Peterson J, Rao TS, Remacle J, 
Schafer AJ, Shibata T, Stratton MR, Vockley JG, Watanabe K, Yang H, Yuen MM,
Knoppers BM, Bobrow M, Cambon-Thomsen A, Dressler LG, Dyke SO, Joly Y, Kato K,
Kennedy KL, Nicolás P, Parker MJ, Rial-Sebbag E, Romeo-Casabona CM, Shaw KM,
Wallace S, Wiesner GL, Zeps N, Lichter P, Biankin AV, Chabannon C, Chin L,
Clément B, de Alava E, Degos F, Ferguson ML, Geary P, Hayes DN, Hudson TJ, Johns 
AL, Kasprzyk A, Nakagawa H, Penny R, Piris MA, Sarin R, Scarpa A, Shibata T, van 
de Vijver M, Futreal PA, Aburatani H, Bayés M, Botwell DD, Campbell PJ, Estivill 
X, Gerhard DS, Grimmond SM, Gut I, Hirst M, López-Otín C, Majumder P, Marra M,
McPherson JD, Nakagawa H, Ning Z, Puente XS, Ruan Y, Shibata T, Stratton MR,
Stunnenberg HG, Swerdlow H, Velculescu VE, Wilson RK, Xue HH, Yang L, Spellman
PT, Bader GD, Boutros PC, Campbell PJ, Flicek P, Getz G, Guigó R, Guo G, Haussler
D, Heath S, Hubbard TJ, Jiang T, Jones SM, Li Q, López-Bigas N, Luo R, Muthuswamy
L, Ouellette BF, Pearson JV, Puente XS, Quesada V, Raphael BJ, Sander C, Shibata 
T, Speed TP, Stein LD, Stuart JM, Teague JW, Totoki Y, Tsunoda T, Valencia A,
Wheeler DA, Wu H, Zhao S, Zhou G, Stein LD, Guigó R, Hubbard TJ, Joly Y, Jones
SM, Kasprzyk A, Lathrop M, López-Bigas N, Ouellette BF, Spellman PT, Teague JW,
Thomas G, Valencia A, Yoshida T, Kennedy KL, Axton M, Dyke SO, Futreal PA,
Gerhard DS, Gunter C, Guyer M, Hudson TJ, McPherson JD, Miller LJ, Ozenberger B, 
Shaw KM, Kasprzyk A, Stein LD, Zhang J, Haider SA, Wang J, Yung CK, Cros A, Liang
Y, Gnaneshan S, Guberman J, Hsu J, Bobrow M, Chalmers DR, Hasel KW, Joly Y, Kaan 
TS, Kennedy KL, Knoppers BM, Lowrance WW, Masui T, Nicolás P, Rial-Sebbag E,
Rodriguez LL, Vergely C, Yoshida T, Grimmond SM, Biankin AV, Bowtell DD, Cloonan 
N, deFazio A, Eshleman JR, Etemadmoghadam D, Gardiner BB, Kench JG, Scarpa A,
Sutherland RL, Tempero MA, Waddell NJ, Wilson PJ, McPherson JD, Gallinger S, Tsao
MS, Shaw PA, Petersen GM, Mukhopadhyay D, Chin L, DePinho RA, Thayer S,
Muthuswamy L, Shazand K, Beck T, Sam M, Timms L, Ballin V, Lu Y, Ji J, Zhang X,
Chen F, Hu X, Zhou G, Yang Q, Tian G, Zhang L, Xing X, Li X, Zhu Z, Yu Y, Yu J,
Yang H, Lathrop M, Tost J, Brennan P, Holcatova I, Zaridze D, Brazma A, Egevard
L, Prokhortchouk E, Banks RE, Uhlén M, Cambon-Thomsen A, Viksna J, Ponten F,
Skryabin K, Stratton MR, Futreal PA, Birney E, Borg A, Børresen-Dale AL, Caldas
C, Foekens JA, Martin S, Reis-Filho JS, Richardson AL, Sotiriou C, Stunnenberg
HG, Thoms G, van de Vijver M, van't Veer L, Calvo F, Birnbaum D, Blanche H,
Boucher P, Boyault S, Chabannon C, Gut I, Masson-Jacquemier JD, Lathrop M,
Pauporté I, Pivot X, Vincent-Salomon A, Tabone E, Theillet C, Thomas G, Tost J,
Treilleux I, Calvo F, Bioulac-Sage P, Clément B, Decaens T, Degos F, Franco D,
Gut I, Gut M, Heath S, Lathrop M, Samuel D, Thomas G, Zucman-Rossi J, Lichter P, 
Eils R, Brors B, Korbel JO, Korshunov A, Landgraf P, Lehrach H, Pfister S,
Radlwimmer B, Reifenberger G, Taylor MD, von Kalle C, Majumder PP, Sarin R, Rao
TS, Bhan MK, Scarpa A, Pederzoli P, Lawlor RA, Delledonne M, Bardelli A, Biankin 
AV, Grimmond SM, Gress T, Klimstra D, Zamboni G, Shibata T, Nakamura Y, Nakagawa 
H, Kusada J, Tsunoda T, Miyano S, Aburatani H, Kato K, Fujimoto A, Yoshida T,
Campo E, López-Otín C, Estivill X, Guigó R, de Sanjosé S, Piris MA, Montserrat E,
González-Díaz M, Puente XS, Jares P, Valencia A, Himmelbauer H, Quesada V, Bea S,
Stratton MR, Futreal PA, Campbell PJ, Vincent-Salomon A, Richardson AL,
Reis-Filho JS, van de Vijver M, Thomas G, Masson-Jacquemier JD, Aparicio S, Borg 
A, Børresen-Dale AL, Caldas C, Foekens JA, Stunnenberg HG, van't Veer L, Easton
DF, Spellman PT, Martin S, Barker AD, Chin L, Collins FS, Compton CC, Ferguson
ML, Gerhard DS, Getz G, Gunter C, Guttmacher A, Guyer M, Hayes DN, Lander ES,
Ozenberger B, Penny R, Peterson J, Sander C, Shaw KM, Speed TP, Spellman PT,
Vockley JG, Wheeler DA, Wilson RK, Hudson TJ, Chin L, Knoppers BM, Lander ES,
Lichter P, Stein LD, Stratton MR, Anderson W, Barker AD, Bell C, Bobrow M, Burke 
W, Collins FS, Compton CC, DePinho RA, Easton DF, Futreal PA, Gerhard DS, Green
AR, Guyer M, Hamilton SR, Hubbard TJ, Kallioniemi OP, Kennedy KL, Ley TJ, Liu ET,
Lu Y, Majumder P, Marra M, Ozenberger B, Peterson J, Schafer AJ, Spellman PT,
Stunnenberg HG, Wainwright BJ, Wilson RK, Yang H.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):966. Himmelbaue, Heinz [corrected to Himmelbauer,
Heinz]; Gardiner, Brooke A [corrected to Gardiner, Brooke B]; Cross, Anthony
[corrected to Cros, Anthony].

The International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC) was launched to coordinate
large-scale cancer genome studies in tumours from 50 different cancer types
and/or subtypes that are of clinical and societal importance across the globe.
Systematic studies of more than 25,000 cancer genomes at the genomic, epigenomic 
and transcriptomic levels will reveal the repertoire of oncogenic mutations,
uncover traces of the mutagenic influences, define clinically relevant subtypes
for prognosis and therapeutic management, and enable the development of new
cancer therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08987 
PMCID: PMC2902243
PMID: 20393554  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):1033-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08867. Epub 2010 Mar 28.

Périgord black truffle genome uncovers evolutionary origins and mechanisms of
symbiosis.

Martin F(1), Kohler A, Murat C, Balestrini R, Coutinho PM, Jaillon O, Montanini
B, Morin E, Noel B, Percudani R, Porcel B, Rubini A, Amicucci A, Amselem J,
Anthouard V, Arcioni S, Artiguenave F, Aury JM, Ballario P, Bolchi A, Brenna A,
Brun A, Buée M, Cantarel B, Chevalier G, Couloux A, Da Silva C, Denoeud F,
Duplessis S, Ghignone S, Hilselberger B, Iotti M, Marçais B, Mello A, Miranda M, 
Pacioni G, Quesneville H, Riccioni C, Ruotolo R, Splivallo R, Stocchi V,
Tisserant E, Viscomi AR, Zambonelli A, Zampieri E, Henrissat B, Lebrun MH,
Paolocci F, Bonfante P, Ottonello S, Wincker P.

Author information: 
(1)INRA, UMR 1136, INRA-Nancy Université, Interactions Arbres/Microorganismes,
54280 Champenoux, France. fmartin@nancy.inra.fr

The Périgord black truffle (Tuber melanosporum Vittad.) and the Piedmont white
truffle dominate today's truffle market. The hypogeous fruiting body of T.
melanosporum is a gastronomic delicacy produced by an ectomycorrhizal symbiont
endemic to calcareous soils in southern Europe. The worldwide demand for this
truffle has fuelled intense efforts at cultivation. Identification of processes
that condition and trigger fruit body and symbiosis formation, ultimately leading
to efficient crop production, will be facilitated by a thorough analysis of
truffle genomic traits. In the ectomycorrhizal Laccaria bicolor, the expansion of
gene families may have acted as a 'symbiosis toolbox'. This feature may however
reflect evolution of this particular taxon and not a general trait shared by all 
ectomycorrhizal species. To get a better understanding of the biology and
evolution of the ectomycorrhizal symbiosis, we report here the sequence of the
haploid genome of T. melanosporum, which at approximately 125 megabases is the
largest and most complex fungal genome sequenced so far. This expansion results
from a proliferation of transposable elements accounting for approximately 58% of
the genome. In contrast, this genome only contains approximately 7,500
protein-coding genes with very rare multigene families. It lacks large sets of
carbohydrate cleaving enzymes, but a few of them involved in degradation of plant
cell walls are induced in symbiotic tissues. The latter feature and the
upregulation of genes encoding for lipases and multicopper oxidases suggest that 
T. melanosporum degrades its host cell walls during colonization. Symbiosis
induces an increased expression of carbohydrate and amino acid transporters in
both L. bicolor and T. melanosporum, but the comparison of genomic traits in the 
two ectomycorrhizal fungi showed that genetic predispositions for symbiosis-'the 
symbiosis toolbox'-evolved along different ways in ascomycetes and
basidiomycetes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08867 
PMID: 20348908  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):1058-61. doi: 10.1038/nature08871. Epub 2010 Mar
28.

Chemoprevention of colorectal cancer by targeting APC-deficient cells for
apoptosis.

Zhang L(1), Ren X, Alt E, Bai X, Huang S, Xu Z, Lynch PM, Moyer MP, Wen XF, Wu X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Head and Neck Surgery, The University of Texas M. D. Anderson
Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Comment in
    Gastroenterol Clin Biol. 2010 Oct;34(10):511-2.
    Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2010 Oct;10(10):1559-62.

Cancer chemoprevention uses natural, synthetic, or biological substances to
reverse, suppress, or prevent either the initial phase of carcinogenesis or the
progression of neoplastic cells to cancer. It holds promise for overcoming
problems associated with the treatment of late-stage cancers. However, the broad 
application of chemoprevention is compromised at present by limited effectiveness
and potential toxicity. To overcome these challenges, here we developed a new
chemoprevention approach that specifically targets premalignant tumour cells for 
apoptosis. We show that a deficiency in the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) gene
and subsequent activation of beta-catenin lead to the repression of cellular
caspase-8 inhibitor c-FLIP (also known as CFLAR) expression through activation of
c-Myc, and that all-trans-retinyl acetate (RAc) independently upregulates tumour 
necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) death receptors and
suppresses decoy receptors. Thus, the combination of TRAIL and RAc induces
apoptosis in APC-deficient premalignant cells without affecting normal cells in
vitro. In addition, we show that short-term and non-continuous TRAIL and RAc
treatment induce apoptosis specifically in intestinal polyps, strongly inhibit
tumour growth, and prolong survival in multiple intestinal neoplasms
C57BL/6J-Apc(Min)/J (Apc(Min)) mice. With our approach, we further demonstrate
that TRAIL and RAc induce significant cell death in human colon polyps, providing
a potentially selective approach for colorectal cancer chemoprevention by
targeting APC-deficient cells for apoptosis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08871 
PMCID: PMC3425353
PMID: 20348907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):1077-81. doi: 10.1038/nature08884. Epub 2010 Mar
28.

Fructose 1,6-bisphosphate aldolase/phosphatase may be an ancestral gluconeogenic 
enzyme.

Say RF(1), Fuchs G.

Author information: 
(1)Mikrobiologie, Fakultät Biologie, Universität Freiburg, Schänzlestrasse 1,
D-79104 Freiburg, Germany.

Most archaeal groups and deeply branching bacterial lineages harbour thermophilic
organisms with a chemolithoautotrophic metabolism. They live at high temperatures
in volcanic habitats at the expense of inorganic substances, often under anoxic
conditions. These autotrophic organisms use diverse carbon dioxide fixation
mechanisms generating acetyl-coenzyme A, from which gluconeogenesis must start.
Here we show that virtually all archaeal groups as well as the deeply branching
bacterial lineages contain a bifunctional fructose 1,6-bisphosphate (FBP)
aldolase/phosphatase with both FBP aldolase and FBP phosphatase activity. This
enzyme is missing in most other Bacteria and in Eukaryota, and is heat-stabile
even in mesophilic marine Crenarchaeota. Its bifunctionality ensures that
heat-labile triosephosphates are quickly removed and trapped in stabile fructose 
6-phosphate, rendering gluconeogenesis unidirectional. We propose that this
highly conserved, heat-stabile and bifunctional FBP aldolase/phosphatase
represents the pace-making ancestral gluconeogenic enzyme, and that in evolution 
gluconeogenesis preceded glycolysis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08884 
PMID: 20348906  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):1067-70. doi: 10.1038/nature08956. Epub 2010 Mar
21.

Evidence of RNAi in humans from systemically administered siRNA via targeted
nanoparticles.

Davis ME(1), Zuckerman JE, Choi CH, Seligson D, Tolcher A, Alabi CA, Yen Y,
Heidel JD, Ribas A.

Author information: 
(1)Chemical Engineering, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California
91125, USA. mdavis@cheme.caltech.edu

Comment in
    Cell Adh Migr. 2011 Jan-Feb;5(1):1-3.

Therapeutics that are designed to engage RNA interference (RNAi) pathways have
the potential to provide new, major ways of imparting therapy to patients. Long, 
double-stranded RNAs were first shown to mediate RNAi in Caenorhabditis elegans, 
and the potential use of RNAi for human therapy has been demonstrated by the
finding that small interfering RNAs (siRNAs; approximately 21-base-pair
double-stranded RNA) can elicit RNAi in mammalian cells without producing an
interferon response. We are at present conducting the first in-human phase I
clinical trial involving the systemic administration of siRNA to patients with
solid cancers using a targeted, nanoparticle delivery system. Here we provide
evidence of inducing an RNAi mechanism of action in a human from the delivered
siRNA. Tumour biopsies from melanoma patients obtained after treatment show the
presence of intracellularly localized nanoparticles in amounts that correlate
with dose levels of the nanoparticles administered (this is, to our knowledge, a 
first for systemically delivered nanoparticles of any kind). Furthermore, a
reduction was found in both the specific messenger RNA (M2 subunit of
ribonucleotide reductase (RRM2)) and the protein (RRM2) levels when compared to
pre-dosing tissue. Most notably, we detect the presence of an mRNA fragment that 
demonstrates that siRNA-mediated mRNA cleavage occurs specifically at the site
predicted for an RNAi mechanism from a patient who received the highest dose of
the nanoparticles. Together, these data demonstrate that siRNA administered
systemically to a human can produce a specific gene inhibition (reduction in mRNA
and protein) by an RNAi mechanism of action.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08956 
PMCID: PMC2855406
PMID: 20305636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Nature. 2010 Apr 15;464(7291):1006-11. doi: 10.1038/nature08943. Epub 2010 Mar
14.

Molecular basis of infrared detection by snakes.

Gracheva EO(1), Ingolia NT, Kelly YM, Cordero-Morales JF, Hollopeter G, Chesler
AT, Sánchez EE, Perez JC, Weissman JS, Julius D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of California, San Francisco, California 
94158-2517, USA.

Snakes possess a unique sensory system for detecting infrared radiation, enabling
them to generate a 'thermal image' of predators or prey. Infrared signals are
initially received by the pit organ, a highly specialized facial structure that
is innervated by nerve fibres of the somatosensory system. How this organ detects
and transduces infrared signals into nerve impulses is not known. Here we use an 
unbiased transcriptional profiling approach to identify TRPA1 channels as
infrared receptors on sensory nerve fibres that innervate the pit organ. TRPA1
orthologues from pit-bearing snakes (vipers, pythons and boas) are the most
heat-sensitive vertebrate ion channels thus far identified, consistent with their
role as primary transducers of infrared stimuli. Thus, snakes detect infrared
signals through a mechanism involving radiant heating of the pit organ, rather
than photochemical transduction. These findings illustrate the broad evolutionary
tuning of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels as thermosensors in the
vertebrate nervous system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08943 
PMCID: PMC2855400
PMID: 20228791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):908-12. doi: 10.1038/nature08937.

Transfer of carbohydrate-active enzymes from marine bacteria to Japanese gut
microbiota.

Hehemann JH(1), Correc G, Barbeyron T, Helbert W, Czjzek M, Michel G.

Author information: 
(1)Université Pierre et Marie Curie, Paris, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):837-8.

Gut microbes supply the human body with energy from dietary polysaccharides
through carbohydrate active enzymes, or CAZymes, which are absent in the human
genome. These enzymes target polysaccharides from terrestrial plants that
dominated diet throughout human evolution. The array of CAZymes in gut microbes
is highly diverse, exemplified by the human gut symbiont Bacteroides
thetaiotaomicron, which contains 261 glycoside hydrolases and polysaccharide
lyases, as well as 208 homologues of susC and susD-genes coding for two outer
membrane proteins involved in starch utilization. A fundamental question that, to
our knowledge, has yet to be addressed is how this diversity evolved by acquiring
new genes from microbes living outside the gut. Here we characterize the first
porphyranases from a member of the marine Bacteroidetes, Zobellia
galactanivorans, active on the sulphated polysaccharide porphyran from marine red
algae of the genus Porphyra. Furthermore, we show that genes coding for these
porphyranases, agarases and associated proteins have been transferred to the gut 
bacterium Bacteroides plebeius isolated from Japanese individuals. Our
comparative gut metagenome analyses show that porphyranases and agarases are
frequent in the Japanese population and that they are absent in metagenome data
from North American individuals. Seaweeds make an important contribution to the
daily diet in Japan (14.2 g per person per day), and Porphyra spp. (nori) is the 
most important nutritional seaweed, traditionally used to prepare sushi. This
indicates that seaweeds with associated marine bacteria may have been the route
by which these novel CAZymes were acquired in human gut bacteria, and that
contact with non-sterile food may be a general factor in CAZyme diversity in
human gut microbes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08937 
PMID: 20376150  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):890-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08891.

Hierarchical group dynamics in pigeon flocks.

Nagy M(1), Akos Z, Biro D, Vicsek T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Physics, Eötvös University, Pázmány Péter sétány 1A, 
H-1117, Budapest, Hungary.

Animals that travel together in groups display a variety of fascinating motion
patterns thought to be the result of delicate local interactions among group
members. Although the most informative way of investigating and interpreting
collective movement phenomena would be afforded by the collection of
high-resolution spatiotemporal data from moving individuals, such data are scarce
and are virtually non-existent for long-distance group motion within a natural
setting because of the associated technological difficulties. Here we present
results of experiments in which track logs of homing pigeons flying in flocks of 
up to 10 individuals have been obtained by high-resolution lightweight GPS
devices and analysed using a variety of correlation functions inspired by
approaches common in statistical physics. We find a well-defined hierarchy among 
flock members from data concerning leading roles in pairwise interactions,
defined on the basis of characteristic delay times between birds' directional
choices. The average spatial position of a pigeon within the flock strongly
correlates with its place in the hierarchy, and birds respond more quickly to
conspecifics perceived primarily through the left eye-both results revealing
differential roles for birds that assume different positions with respect to
flock-mates. From an evolutionary perspective, our results suggest that
hierarchical organization of group flight may be more efficient than an
egalitarian one, at least for those flock sizes that permit regular pairwise
interactions among group members, during which leader-follower relationships are 
consistently manifested.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08891 
PMID: 20376149  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):885-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08951.

Seismic evidence for widespread western-US deep-crustal deformation caused by
extension.

Moschetti MP(1), Ritzwoller MH, Lin F, Yang Y.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Imaging the Earth's Interior, Department of Physics, University of 
Colorado at Boulder, Campus Box 390, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA.
mmoschetti@usgs.gov

Laboratory experiments have established that many of the materials comprising the
Earth are strongly anisotropic in terms of seismic-wave speeds. Observations of
azimuthal and radial anisotropy in the upper mantle are attributed to the
lattice-preferred orientation of olivine caused by the shear strains associated
with deformation, and provide some of the most direct evidence for deformation
and flow within the Earth's interior. Although observations of crustal radial
anisotropy would improve our understanding of crustal deformation and flow
patterns resulting from tectonic processes, large-scale observations have been
limited to regions of particularly thick crust. Here we show that observations
from ambient noise tomography in the western United States reveal strong deep
(middle to lower)-crustal radial anisotropy that is confined mainly to the
geological provinces that have undergone significant extension during the
Cenozoic Era (since approximately 65 Myr ago). The coincidence of crustal radial 
anisotropy with the extensional provinces of the western United States suggests
that the radial anisotropy results from the lattice-preferred orientation of
anisotropic crustal minerals caused by extensional deformation. These
observations also provide support for the hypothesis that the deep crust within
these regions has undergone widespread and relatively uniform strain in response 
to crustal thinning and extension.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08951 
PMID: 20376148 


654. Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):881-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08931.

Grazing-induced reduction of natural nitrous oxide release from continental
steppe.

Wolf B(1), Zheng X, Brüggemann N, Chen W, Dannenmann M, Han X, Sutton MA, Wu H,
Yao Z, Butterbach-Bahl K.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Meteorology and Climate Research, Karlsruhe Institute of
Technology, Kreuzeckbahnstrasse 19, 82467 Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):843-4.

Atmospheric concentrations of the greenhouse gas nitrous oxide (N(2)O) have
increased significantly since pre-industrial times owing to anthropogenic
perturbation of the global nitrogen cycle, with animal production being one of
the main contributors. Grasslands cover about 20 per cent of the temperate land
surface of the Earth and are widely used as pasture. It has been suggested that
high animal stocking rates and the resulting elevated nitrogen input increase
N(2)O emissions. Internationally agreed methods to upscale the effect of
increased livestock numbers on N(2)O emissions are based directly on per capita
nitrogen inputs. However, measurements of grassland N(2)O fluxes are often
performed over short time periods, with low time resolution and mostly during the
growing season. In consequence, our understanding of the daily and seasonal
dynamics of grassland N(2)O fluxes remains limited. Here we report year-round
N(2)O flux measurements with high and low temporal resolution at ten steppe
grassland sites in Inner Mongolia, China. We show that short-lived pulses of
N(2)O emission during spring thaw dominate the annual N(2)O budget at our study
sites. The N(2)O emission pulses are highest in ungrazed steppe and decrease with
increasing stocking rate, suggesting that grazing decreases rather than increases
N(2)O emissions. Our results show that the stimulatory effect of higher stocking 
rates on nitrogen cycling and, hence, on N(2)O emission is more than offset by
the effects of a parallel reduction in microbial biomass, inorganic nitrogen
production and wintertime water retention. By neglecting these freeze-thaw
interactions, existing approaches may have systematically overestimated N(2)O
emissions over the last century for semi-arid, cool temperate grasslands by up to
72 per cent.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08931 
PMID: 20376147  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):877-80. doi: 10.1038/nature08929.

Dislocation nucleation governed softening and maximum strength in nano-twinned
metals.

Li X(1), Wei Y, Lu L, Lu K, Gao H.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Engineering, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island 02912,
USA.

In conventional metals, there is plenty of space for dislocations-line defects
whose motion results in permanent material deformation-to multiply, so that the
metal strengths are controlled by dislocation interactions with grain boundaries 
and other obstacles. For nanostructured materials, in contrast, dislocation
multiplication is severely confined by the nanometre-scale geometries so that
continued plasticity can be expected to be source-controlled. Nano-grained
polycrystalline materials were found to be strong but brittle, because both
nucleation and motion of dislocations are effectively suppressed by the nanoscale
crystallites. Here we report a dislocation-nucleation-controlled mechanism in
nano-twinned metals in which there are plenty of dislocation nucleation sites but
dislocation motion is not confined. We show that dislocation nucleation governs
the strength of such materials, resulting in their softening below a critical
twin thickness. Large-scale molecular dynamics simulations and a kinetic theory
of dislocation nucleation in nano-twinned metals show that there exists a
transition in deformation mechanism, occurring at a critical twin-boundary
spacing for which strength is maximized. At this point, the classical Hall-Petch 
type of strengthening due to dislocation pile-up and cutting through twin planes 
switches to a dislocation-nucleation-controlled softening mechanism with
twin-boundary migration resulting from nucleation and motion of partial
dislocations parallel to the twin planes. Most previous studies did not consider 
a sufficient range of twin thickness and therefore missed this strength-softening
regime. The simulations indicate that the critical twin-boundary spacing for the 
onset of softening in nano-twinned copper and the maximum strength depend on the 
grain size: the smaller the grain size, the smaller the critical twin-boundary
spacing, and the higher the maximum strength of the material.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08929 
PMID: 20376146 


656. Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):873-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08940.

'Memristive' switches enable 'stateful' logic operations via material
implication.

Borghetti J(1), Snider GS, Kuekes PJ, Yang JJ, Stewart DR, Williams RS.

Author information: 
(1)Hewlett-Packard Laboratories, 1501 Page Mill Road, Palo Alto, California
94304, USA.

The authors of the International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors-the
industry consensus set of goals established for advancing silicon integrated
circuit technology-have challenged the computing research community to find new
physical state variables (other than charge or voltage), new devices, and new
architectures that offer memory and logic functions beyond those available with
standard transistors. Recently, ultra-dense resistive memory arrays built from
various two-terminal semiconductor or insulator thin film devices have been
demonstrated. Among these, bipolar voltage-actuated switches have been identified
as physical realizations of 'memristors' or memristive devices, combining the
electrical properties of a memory element and a resistor. Such devices were first
hypothesized by Chua in 1971 (ref. 15), and are characterized by one or more
state variables that define the resistance of the switch depending upon its
voltage history. Here we show that this family of nonlinear dynamical memory
devices can also be used for logic operations: we demonstrate that they can
execute material implication (IMP), which is a fundamental Boolean logic
operation on two variables p and q such that pIMPq is equivalent to (NOTp)ORq.
Incorporated within an appropriate circuit, memristive switches can thus perform 
'stateful' logic operations for which the same devices serve simultaneously as
gates (logic) and latches (memory) that use resistance instead of voltage or
charge as the physical state variable.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08940 
PMID: 20376145 


657. Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):870-2. doi: 10.1038/nature08968.

Infrared images of the transiting disk in the epsilon Aurigae system.

Kloppenborg B(1), Stencel R, Monnier JD, Schaefer G, Zhao M, Baron F, McAlister
H, Ten Brummelaar T, Che X, Farrington C, Pedretti E, Sallave-Goldfinger PJ,
Sturmann J, Sturmann L, Thureau N, Turner N, Carroll SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Denver, 2112 East Wesley
Avenue, Denver, Colorado 80208, USA. bkloppen@du.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):842-3.

Epsilon Aurigae (epsilon Aur) is a visually bright, eclipsing binary star system 
with a period of 27.1 years. The cause of each 18-month-long eclipse has been a
subject of controversy for nearly 190 years because the companion has hitherto
been undetectable. The orbital elements imply that the opaque object has roughly 
the same mass as the visible component, which for much of the last century was
thought to be an F-type supergiant star with a mass of approximately
15M[symbol:see text] (M[symbol:see text], mass of the Sun). The high
mass-to-luminosity ratio of the hidden object was originally explained by
supposing it to be a hyperextended infrared star or, later, a black hole with an 
accretion disk, although the preferred interpretation was as a disk of opaque
material at a temperature of approximately 500 K, tilted to the line of sight and
with a central opening. Recent work implies that the system consists of a
low-mass (2.2M[symbol:see text]-3.3M[symbol:see text]) visible F-type star, with 
a disk at 550 K that enshrouds a single B5V-type star. Here we report
interferometric images that show the eclipsing body moving in front of the F
star. The body is an opaque disk and appears tilted as predicted. Adopting a mass
of 5.9M[symbol:see text] for the B star, we derive a mass of approximately (3.6
+/- 0.7)M[symbol:see text] for the F star. The disk mass is dynamically
negligible; we estimate it to contain approximately 0.07M[symbol:see text]
(M[symbol:see text], mass of the Earth) if it consists purely of dust.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08968 
PMID: 20376144 


658. Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):847-51. doi: 10.1038/nature08942.

Quantum spin liquid emerging in two-dimensional correlated Dirac fermions.

Meng ZY(1), Lang TC, Wessel S, Assaad FF, Muramatsu A.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Theoretische Physik III, Universität Stuttgart, Pfaffenwaldring
57, 70550 Stuttgart, Germany. meng@theo3.physik.uni-stuttgart.de

At sufficiently low temperatures, condensed-matter systems tend to develop order.
A notable exception to this behaviour is the case of quantum spin liquids, in
which quantum fluctuations prevent a transition to an ordered state down to the
lowest temperatures. There have now been tentative observations of such states in
some two-dimensional organic compounds, yet quantum spin liquids remain elusive
in microscopic two-dimensional models that are relevant to experiments. Here we
show, by means of large-scale quantum Monte Carlo simulations of correlated
fermions on a honeycomb lattice (a structure realized in, for example, graphene),
that a quantum spin liquid emerges between the state described by massless Dirac 
fermions and an antiferromagnetically ordered Mott insulator. This unexpected
quantum-disordered state is found to be a short-range resonating valence-bond
liquid, akin to the one proposed for high-temperature superconductors: the
possibility of unconventional superconductivity through doping therefore arises
in our system. We foresee the experimental realization of this model system using
ultra-cold atoms, or group IV elements arranged in honeycomb lattices.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08942 
PMID: 20376143 


659. Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):932-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08944. Epub 2010 Mar 31.

The kinetics of two-dimensional TCR and pMHC interactions determine T-cell
responsiveness.

Huang J(1), Zarnitsyna VI, Liu B, Edwards LJ, Jiang N, Evavold BD, Zhu C.

Author information: 
(1)Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology,
Atlanta, Georgia 30332, USA.

The T-cell receptor (TCR) interacts with peptide-major histocompatibility
complexes (pMHC) to discriminate pathogens from self-antigens and trigger
adaptive immune responses. Direct physical contact is required between the T cell
and the antigen-presenting cell for cross-junctional binding where the TCR and
pMHC are anchored on two-dimensional (2D) membranes of the apposing cells.
Despite their 2D nature, TCR-pMHC binding kinetics have only been analysed
three-dimensionally (3D) with a varying degree of correlation with the T-cell
responsiveness. Here we use two mechanical assays to show high 2D affinities
between a TCR and its antigenic pMHC driven by rapid on-rates. Compared to their 
3D counterparts, 2D affinities and on-rates of the TCR for a panel of pMHC
ligands possess far broader dynamic ranges that match that of their corresponding
T-cell responses. The best 3D predictor of response is the off-rate, with agonist
pMHC dissociating the slowest. In contrast, 2D off-rates are up to 8,300-fold
faster, with the agonist pMHC dissociating the fastest. Our 2D data suggest rapid
antigen sampling by T cells and serial engagement of a few agonist pMHCs by TCRs 
in a large self pMHC background. Thus, the cellular environment amplifies the
intrinsic TCR-pMHC binding to generate broad affinities and rapid kinetics that
determine T-cell responsiveness.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08944 
PMCID: PMC2925443
PMID: 20357766  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):937-41. doi: 10.1038/nature08868. Epub 2010 Mar 28.

Double Holliday junctions are intermediates of DNA break repair.

Bzymek M(1), Thayer NH, Oh SD, Kleckner N, Hunter N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of California Davis, Davis, California 
95616, USA.

Repair of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) by homologous recombination is crucial 
for cell proliferation and tumour suppression. However, despite its importance,
the molecular intermediates of mitotic DSB repair remain undefined. The double
Holliday junction (DHJ), presupposed to be the central intermediate for more than
25 years, has only been identified during meiotic recombination. Moreover,
evidence has accumulated for alternative, DHJ-independent mechanisms, raising the
possibility that DHJs are not formed during DSB repair in mitotically cycling
cells. Here we identify intermediates of DSB repair by using a budding-yeast
assay system designed to mimic physiological DSB repair. This system uses diploid
cells and provides the possibility for allelic recombination either between
sister chromatids or between homologues, as well as direct comparison with
meiotic recombination at the same locus. In mitotically cycling cells, we detect 
inter-homologue joint molecule (JM) intermediates whose strand composition and
size are identical to those of the canonical DHJ structures observed in meiosis. 
However, in contrast to meiosis, JMs between sister chromatids form in preference
to those between homologues. Moreover, JMs seem to represent a minor pathway of
DSB repair in mitotic cells, being detected at about tenfold lower levels (per
DSB) than during meiotic recombination. Thus, although DHJs are identified as
intermediates of DSB-promoted recombination in both mitotic and meiotic cells,
their formation is distinctly regulated according to the specific dictates of the
two cellular programs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08868 
PMCID: PMC2851831
PMID: 20348905  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


661. Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):903-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08860. Epub 2010 Mar 24.

Human memory strength is predicted by theta-frequency phase-locking of single
neurons.

Rutishauser U(1), Ross IB, Mamelak AN, Schuman EM.

Author information: 
(1)Computation and Neural Systems and Division of Biology, California Institute
of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2010 May;11(5):296.

Learning from novel experiences is a major task of the central nervous system. In
mammals, the medial temporal lobe is crucial for this rapid form of learning. The
modification of synapses and neuronal circuits through plasticity is thought to
underlie memory formation. The induction of synaptic plasticity is favoured by
coordinated action-potential timing across populations of neurons. Such
coordinated activity of neural populations can give rise to oscillations of
different frequencies, recorded in local field potentials. Brain oscillations in 
the theta frequency range (3-8 Hz) are often associated with the favourable
induction of synaptic plasticity as well as behavioural memory. Here we report
the activity of single neurons recorded together with the local field potential
in humans engaged in a learning task. We show that successful memory formation in
humans is predicted by a tight coordination of spike timing with the local theta 
oscillation. More stereotyped spiking predicts better memory, as indicated by
higher retrieval confidence reported by subjects. These findings provide a link
between the known modulation of theta oscillations by many memory-modulating
behaviours and circuit mechanisms of plasticity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08860 
PMID: 20336071  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):858-63. doi: 10.1038/nature08882. Epub 2010 Mar 24.

Zscan4 regulates telomere elongation and genomic stability in ES cells.

Zalzman M(1), Falco G, Sharova LV, Nishiyama A, Thomas M, Lee SL, Stagg CA, Hoang
HG, Yang HT, Indig FE, Wersto RP, Ko MS.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Genomics and Aging Section, Laboratory of Genetics, NIH,
Baltimore, Maryland 21224, USA

Exceptional genomic stability is one of the hallmarks of mouse embryonic stem
(ES) cells. However, the genes contributing to this stability remain obscure. We 
previously identified Zscan4 as a specific marker for two-cell embryo and ES
cells. Here we show that Zscan4 is involved in telomere maintenance and long-term
genomic stability in ES cells. Only 5% of ES cells express Zscan4 at a given
time, but nearly all ES cells activate Zscan4 at least once during nine passages.
The transient Zscan4-positive state is associated with rapid telomere extension
by telomere recombination and upregulation of meiosis-specific homologous
recombination genes, which encode proteins that are colocalized with ZSCAN4 on
telomeres. Furthermore, Zscan4 knockdown shortens telomeres, increases karyotype 
abnormalities and spontaneous sister chromatid exchange, and slows down cell
proliferation until reaching crisis by passage eight. Together, our data show a
unique mode of genome maintenance in ES cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08882 
PMCID: PMC2851843
PMID: 20336070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):922-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08866. Epub 2010 Mar 24.

Chromatin signature of embryonic pluripotency is established during genome
activation.

Vastenhouw NL(1), Zhang Y, Woods IG, Imam F, Regev A, Liu XS, Rinn J, Schier AF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Harvard University, 16 Divinity 
Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

After fertilization the embryonic genome is inactive until transcription is
initiated during the maternal-zygotic transition. This transition coincides with 
the formation of pluripotent cells, which in mammals can be used to generate
embryonic stem cells. To study the changes in chromatin structure that accompany 
pluripotency and genome activation, we mapped the genomic locations of histone H3
molecules bearing lysine trimethylation modifications before and after the
maternal-zygotic transition in zebrafish. Histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation
(H3K27me3), which is repressive, and H3K4me3, which is activating, were not
detected before the transition. After genome activation, more than 80% of genes
were marked by H3K4me3, including many inactive developmental regulatory genes
that were also marked by H3K27me3. Sequential chromatin immunoprecipitation
demonstrated that the same promoter regions had both trimethylation marks. Such
bivalent chromatin domains also exist in embryonic stem cells and are thought to 
poise genes for activation while keeping them repressed. Furthermore, we found
many inactive genes that were uniquely marked by H3K4me3. Despite this activating
modification, these monovalent genes were neither expressed nor stably bound by
RNA polymerase II. Inspection of published data sets revealed similar monovalent 
domains in embryonic stem cells. Moreover, H3K4me3 marks could form in the
absence of both sequence-specific transcriptional activators and stable
association of RNA polymerase II, as indicated by the analysis of an inducible
transgene. These results indicate that bivalent and monovalent domains might
poise embryonic genes for activation and that the chromatin profile associated
with pluripotency is established during the maternal-zygotic transition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08866 
PMCID: PMC2874748
PMID: 20336069  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):894-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08976. Epub 2010 Mar 24.

The complete mitochondrial DNA genome of an unknown hominin from southern
Siberia.

Krause J(1), Fu Q, Good JM, Viola B, Shunkov MV, Derevianko AP, Pääbo S.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Deutscher Platz 6, D-04103
Leipzig, Germany. krause@eva.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):838-9.

With the exception of Neanderthals, from which DNA sequences of numerous
individuals have now been determined, the number and genetic relationships of
other hominin lineages are largely unknown. Here we report a complete
mitochondrial (mt) DNA sequence retrieved from a bone excavated in 2008 in
Denisova Cave in the Altai Mountains in southern Siberia. It represents a
hitherto unknown type of hominin mtDNA that shares a common ancestor with
anatomically modern human and Neanderthal mtDNAs about 1.0 million years ago.
This indicates that it derives from a hominin migration out of Africa distinct
from that of the ancestors of Neanderthals and of modern humans. The stratigraphy
of the cave where the bone was found suggests that the Denisova hominin lived
close in time and space with Neanderthals as well as with modern humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08976 
PMID: 20336068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):852-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08851. Epub 2010 Mar 21.

Bone progenitor dysfunction induces myelodysplasia and secondary leukaemia.

Raaijmakers MH(1), Mukherjee S, Guo S, Zhang S, Kobayashi T, Schoonmaker JA,
Ebert BL, Al-Shahrour F, Hasserjian RP, Scadden EO, Aung Z, Matza M,
Merkenschlager M, Lin C, Rommens JM, Scadden DT.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Regenerative Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard
Medical School CPZN, USA. hraaijmakers@partners.org

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2010 May 7;6(5):399-400.

Mesenchymal cells contribute to the 'stroma' of most normal and malignant
tissues, with specific mesenchymal cells participating in the regulatory niches
of stem cells. By examining how mesenchymal osteolineage cells modulate
haematopoiesis, here we show that deletion of Dicer1 specifically in mouse
osteoprogenitors, but not in mature osteoblasts, disrupts the integrity of
haematopoiesis. Myelodysplasia resulted and acute myelogenous leukaemia emerged
that had acquired several genetic abnormalities while having intact Dicer1.
Examining gene expression altered in osteoprogenitors as a result of Dicer1
deletion showed reduced expression of Sbds, the gene mutated in
Schwachman-Bodian-Diamond syndrome-a human bone marrow failure and leukaemia
pre-disposition condition. Deletion of Sbds in mouse osteoprogenitors induced
bone marrow dysfunction with myelodysplasia. Therefore, perturbation of specific 
mesenchymal subsets of stromal cells can disorder differentiation, proliferation 
and apoptosis of heterologous cells, and disrupt tissue homeostasis. Furthermore,
primary stromal dysfunction can result in secondary neoplastic disease,
supporting the concept of niche-induced oncogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08851 
PMCID: PMC3422863
PMID: 20305640  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):864-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08849. Epub 2010 Mar 21.

Molecular mechanism of multivesicular body biogenesis by ESCRT complexes.

Wollert T(1), Hurley JH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive 
and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, US Department of Health and
Human Services, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2010 May;11(5):314.

When internalized receptors and other cargo are destined for lysosomal
degradation, they are ubiquitinated and sorted by the endosomal sorting complex
required for transport (ESCRT) complexes 0, I, II and III into multivesicular
bodies. Multivesicular bodies are formed when cargo-rich patches of the limiting 
membrane of endosomes bud inwards by an unknown mechanism and are then cleaved to
yield cargo-bearing intralumenal vesicles. The biogenesis of multivesicular
bodies was reconstituted and visualized using giant unilamellar vesicles,
fluorescent ESCRT-0, -I, -II and -III complexes, and a membrane-tethered
fluorescent ubiquitin fusion as a model cargo. Here we show that ESCRT-0 forms
domains of clustered cargo but does not deform membranes. ESCRT-I and ESCRT-II in
combination deform the membrane into buds, in which cargo is confined. ESCRT-I
and ESCRT-II localize to the bud necks, and recruit ESCRT-0-ubiquitin domains to 
the buds. ESCRT-III subunits localize to the bud neck and efficiently cleave the 
buds to form intralumenal vesicles. Intralumenal vesicles produced in this
reaction contain the model cargo but are devoid of ESCRTs. The observations
explain how the ESCRTs direct membrane budding and scission from the cytoplasmic 
side of the bud without being consumed in the reaction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08849 
PMCID: PMC2851844
PMID: 20305637  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):898-902. doi: 10.1038/nature08837. Epub 2010 Mar 17.

Genome-wide SNP and haplotype analyses reveal a rich history underlying dog
domestication.

Vonholdt BM(1), Pollinger JP, Lohmueller KE, Han E, Parker HG, Quignon P,
Degenhardt JD, Boyko AR, Earl DA, Auton A, Reynolds A, Bryc K, Brisbin A, Knowles
JC, Mosher DS, Spady TC, Elkahloun A, Geffen E, Pilot M, Jedrzejewski W, Greco C,
Randi E, Bannasch D, Wilton A, Shearman J, Musiani M, Cargill M, Jones PG, Qian
Z, Huang W, Ding ZL, Zhang YP, Bustamante CD, Ostrander EA, Novembre J, Wayne RK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, 621 Charles E. Young Drive
South, University of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.

Advances in genome technology have facilitated a new understanding of the
historical and genetic processes crucial to rapid phenotypic evolution under
domestication. To understand the process of dog diversification better, we
conducted an extensive genome-wide survey of more than 48,000 single nucleotide
polymorphisms in dogs and their wild progenitor, the grey wolf. Here we show that
dog breeds share a higher proportion of multi-locus haplotypes unique to grey
wolves from the Middle East, indicating that they are a dominant source of
genetic diversity for dogs rather than wolves from east Asia, as suggested by
mitochondrial DNA sequence data. Furthermore, we find a surprising correspondence
between genetic and phenotypic/functional breed groupings but there are
exceptions that suggest phenotypic diversification depended in part on the
repeated crossing of individuals with novel phenotypes. Our results show that
Middle Eastern wolves were a critical source of genome diversity, although
interbreeding with local wolf populations clearly occurred elsewhere in the early
history of specific lineages. More recently, the evolution of modern dog breeds
seems to have been an iterative process that drew on a limited genetic toolkit to
create remarkable phenotypic diversity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08837 
PMCID: PMC3494089
PMID: 20237475  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):917-21. doi: 10.1038/nature08945. Epub 2010 Mar 14.

Vascular endothelial growth factor B controls endothelial fatty acid uptake.

Hagberg CE(1), Falkevall A, Wang X, Larsson E, Huusko J, Nilsson I, van Meeteren 
LA, Samen E, Lu L, Vanwildemeersch M, Klar J, Genove G, Pietras K, Stone-Elander 
S, Claesson-Welsh L, Ylä-Herttuala S, Lindahl P, Eriksson U.

Author information: 
(1)Tissue Biology Group, Division of Matrix Biology, Department of Medical
Biochemistry and Biophysics, Karolinska Institutet, SE-171 77 Stockholm, Sweden.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2010 May;11(5):314.

The vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGFs) are major angiogenic regulators
and are involved in several aspects of endothelial cell physiology. However, the 
detailed role of VEGF-B in blood vessel function has remained unclear. Here we
show that VEGF-B has an unexpected role in endothelial targeting of lipids to
peripheral tissues. Dietary lipids present in circulation have to be transported 
through the vascular endothelium to be metabolized by tissue cells, a mechanism
that is poorly understood. Bioinformatic analysis showed that Vegfb was tightly
co-expressed with nuclear-encoded mitochondrial genes across a large variety of
physiological conditions in mice, pointing to a role for VEGF-B in metabolism.
VEGF-B specifically controlled endothelial uptake of fatty acids via
transcriptional regulation of vascular fatty acid transport proteins. As a
consequence, Vegfb(-/-) mice showed less uptake and accumulation of lipids in
muscle, heart and brown adipose tissue, and instead shunted lipids to white
adipose tissue. This regulation was mediated by VEGF receptor 1 and neuropilin 1 
expressed by the endothelium. The co-expression of VEGF-B and mitochondrial
proteins introduces a novel regulatory mechanism, whereby endothelial lipid
uptake and mitochondrial lipid use are tightly coordinated. The involvement of
VEGF-B in lipid uptake may open up the possibility for novel strategies to
modulate pathological lipid accumulation in diabetes, obesity and cardiovascular 
diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08945 
PMID: 20228789  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):913-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08836. Epub 2010 Mar 10.

MONOPTEROS controls embryonic root initiation by regulating a mobile
transcription factor.

Schlereth A(1), Möller B, Liu W, Kientz M, Flipse J, Rademacher EH, Schmid M,
Jürgens G, Weijers D.

Author information: 
(1)Entwicklungsgenetik, Zentrum für Molekularbiologie der Pflanzen (ZMBP),
Universität Tübingen, Auf der Morgenstelle 3, 72076 Tübingen, Germany.

Acquisition of cell identity in plants relies strongly on positional information,
hence cell-cell communication and inductive signalling are instrumental for
developmental patterning. During Arabidopsis embryogenesis, an extra-embryonic
cell is specified to become the founder cell of the primary root meristem,
hypophysis, in response to signals from adjacent embryonic cells. The
auxin-dependent transcription factor MONOPTEROS (MP) drives hypophysis
specification by promoting transport of the hormone auxin from the embryo to the 
hypophysis precursor. However, auxin accumulation is not sufficient for
hypophysis specification, indicating that additional MP-dependent signals are
required. Here we describe the microarray-based isolation of MP target genes that
mediate signalling from embryo to hypophysis. Of three direct transcriptional
target genes, TARGET OF MP 5 (TMO5) and TMO7 encode basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH)
transcription factors that are expressed in the hypophysis-adjacent embryo cells,
and are required and partially sufficient for MP-dependent root initiation.
Importantly, the small TMO7 transcription factor moves from its site of synthesis
in the embryo to the hypophysis precursor, thus representing a novel MP-dependent
intercellular signal in embryonic root specification.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08836 
PMID: 20220754  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):927-31. doi: 10.1038/nature08858. Epub 2010 Feb 17.

Proviral silencing in embryonic stem cells requires the histone methyltransferase
ESET.

Matsui T(1), Leung D, Miyashita H, Maksakova IA, Miyachi H, Kimura H, Tachibana
M, Lorincz MC, Shinkai Y.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Research Center for Infectious Diseases, Institute for Virus
Research, Kyoto University, 53 Shogoin, Kawara-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8507,
Japan.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):128.

Endogenous retroviruses (ERVs), retrovirus-like elements with long terminal
repeats, are widely dispersed in the euchromatic compartment in mammalian cells, 
comprising approximately 10% of the mouse genome. These parasitic elements are
responsible for >10% of spontaneous mutations. Whereas DNA methylation has an
important role in proviral silencing in somatic and germ-lineage cells, an
additional DNA-methylation-independent pathway also functions in embryonal
carcinoma and embryonic stem (ES) cells to inhibit transcription of the exogenous
gammaretrovirus murine leukaemia virus (MLV). Notably, a recent genome-wide study
revealed that ERVs are also marked by histone H3 lysine 9 trimethylation
(H3K9me3) and H4K20me3 in ES cells but not in mouse embryonic fibroblasts.
However, the role that these marks have in proviral silencing remains unexplored.
Here we show that the H3K9 methyltransferase ESET (also called SETDB1 or KMT1E)
and the Krüppel-associated box (KRAB)-associated protein 1 (KAP1, also called
TRIM28) are required for H3K9me3 and silencing of endogenous and introduced
retroviruses specifically in mouse ES cells. Furthermore, whereas ESET enzymatic 
activity is crucial for HP1 binding and efficient proviral silencing, the H4K20
methyltransferases Suv420h1 and Suv420h2 are dispensable for silencing. Notably, 
in DNA methyltransferase triple knockout (Dnmt1(-/-)Dnmt3a(-/-)Dnmt3b(-/-)) mouse
ES cells, ESET and KAP1 binding and ESET-mediated H3K9me3 are maintained and ERVs
are minimally derepressed. We propose that a DNA-methylation-independent pathway 
involving KAP1 and ESET/ESET-mediated H3K9me3 is required for proviral silencing 
during the period early in embryogenesis when DNA methylation is dynamically
reprogrammed.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08858 
PMID: 20164836  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):788-91. doi: 10.1038/nature08854.

NINJA connects the co-repressor TOPLESS to jasmonate signalling.

Pauwels L(1), Barbero GF, Geerinck J, Tilleman S, Grunewald W, Pérez AC, Chico
JM, Bossche RV, Sewell J, Gil E, García-Casado G, Witters E, Inzé D, Long JA, De 
Jaeger G, Solano R, Goossens A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Systems Biology, Flanders Institute for Biotechnology
(VIB), Technologiepark 927, B-9052 Gent, Belgium.

Jasmonoyl-isoleucine (JA-Ile) is a plant hormone that regulates a broad array of 
plant defence and developmental processes. JA-Ile-responsive gene expression is
regulated by the transcriptional activator MYC2 that interacts physically with
the jasmonate ZIM-domain (JAZ) repressor proteins. On perception of JA-Ile, JAZ
proteins are degraded and JA-Ile-dependent gene expression is activated. The
molecular mechanisms by which JAZ proteins repress gene expression remain
unknown. Here we show that the Arabidopsis JAZ proteins recruit the
Groucho/Tup1-type co-repressor TOPLESS (TPL) and TPL-related proteins (TPRs)
through a previously uncharacterized adaptor protein, designated Novel Interactor
of JAZ (NINJA). NINJA acts as a transcriptional repressor whose activity is
mediated by a functional TPL-binding EAR repression motif. Accordingly, both
NINJA and TPL proteins function as negative regulators of jasmonate responses.
Our results point to TPL proteins as general co-repressors that affect multiple
signalling pathways through the interaction with specific adaptor proteins. This 
new insight reveals how stress-related and growth-related signalling cascades use
common molecular mechanisms to regulate gene expression in plants.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08854 
PMCID: PMC2849182
PMID: 20360743  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):763-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08855.

Impaired hippocampal-prefrontal synchrony in a genetic mouse model of
schizophrenia.

Sigurdsson T(1), Stark KL, Karayiorgou M, Gogos JA, Gordon JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia
University, New York, New York 10032, USA.

Abnormalities in functional connectivity between brain areas have been postulated
as an important pathophysiological mechanism underlying schizophrenia. In
particular, macroscopic measurements of brain activity in patients suggest that
functional connectivity between the frontal and temporal lobes may be altered.
However, it remains unclear whether such dysconnectivity relates to the aetiology
of the illness, and how it is manifested in the activity of neural circuits.
Because schizophrenia has a strong genetic component, animal models of genetic
risk factors are likely to aid our understanding of the pathogenesis and
pathophysiology of the disease. Here we study Df(16)A(+/-) mice, which model a
microdeletion on human chromosome 22 (22q11.2) that constitutes one of the
largest known genetic risk factors for schizophrenia. To examine functional
connectivity in these mice, we measured the synchronization of neural activity
between the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex during the performance of a
task requiring working memory, which is one of the cognitive functions disrupted 
in the disease. In wild-type mice, hippocampal-prefrontal synchrony increased
during working memory performance, consistent with previous reports in rats.
Df(16)A(+/-) mice, which are impaired in the acquisition of the task, showed
drastically reduced synchrony, measured both by phase-locking of prefrontal cells
to hippocampal theta oscillations and by coherence of prefrontal and hippocampal 
local field potentials. Furthermore, the magnitude of hippocampal-prefrontal
coherence at the onset of training could be used to predict the time it took the 
Df(16)A(+/-) mice to learn the task and increased more slowly during task
acquisition. These data suggest how the deficits in functional connectivity
observed in patients with schizophrenia may be realized at the single-neuron
level. Our findings further suggest that impaired long-range synchrony of neural 
activity is one consequence of the 22q11.2 deletion and may be a fundamental
component of the pathophysiology underlying schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08855 
PMCID: PMC2864584
PMID: 20360742  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):757-62. doi: 10.1038/nature08819.

The genome of a songbird.

Warren WC(1), Clayton DF, Ellegren H, Arnold AP, Hillier LW, Künstner A, Searle
S, White S, Vilella AJ, Fairley S, Heger A, Kong L, Ponting CP, Jarvis ED, Mello 
CV, Minx P, Lovell P, Velho TA, Ferris M, Balakrishnan CN, Sinha S, Blatti C,
London SE, Li Y, Lin YC, George J, Sweedler J, Southey B, Gunaratne P, Watson M, 
Nam K, Backström N, Smeds L, Nabholz B, Itoh Y, Whitney O, Pfenning AR, Howard J,
Völker M, Skinner BM, Griffin DK, Ye L, McLaren WM, Flicek P, Quesada V, Velasco 
G, Lopez-Otin C, Puente XS, Olender T, Lancet D, Smit AF, Hubley R, Konkel MK,
Walker JA, Batzer MA, Gu W, Pollock DD, Chen L, Cheng Z, Eichler EE, Stapley J,
Slate J, Ekblom R, Birkhead T, Burke T, Burt D, Scharff C, Adam I, Richard H,
Sultan M, Soldatov A, Lehrach H, Edwards SV, Yang SP, Li X, Graves T, Fulton L,
Nelson J, Chinwalla A, Hou S, Mardis ER, Wilson RK.

Author information: 
(1)The Genome Center, Washington University School of Medicine, Campus Box 8501, 
4444 Forest Park Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA. wwarren@watson.wustl.edu

The zebra finch is an important model organism in several fields with unique
relevance to human neuroscience. Like other songbirds, the zebra finch
communicates through learned vocalizations, an ability otherwise documented only 
in humans and a few other animals and lacking in the chicken-the only bird with a
sequenced genome until now. Here we present a structural, functional and
comparative analysis of the genome sequence of the zebra finch (Taeniopygia
guttata), which is a songbird belonging to the large avian order Passeriformes.
We find that the overall structures of the genomes are similar in zebra finch and
chicken, but they differ in many intrachromosomal rearrangements,
lineage-specific gene family expansions, the number of long-terminal-repeat-based
retrotransposons, and mechanisms of sex chromosome dosage compensation. We show
that song behaviour engages gene regulatory networks in the zebra finch brain,
altering the expression of long non-coding RNAs, microRNAs, transcription factors
and their targets. We also show evidence for rapid molecular evolution in the
songbird lineage of genes that are regulated during song experience. These
results indicate an active involvement of the genome in neural processes
underlying vocal communication and identify potential genetic substrates for the 
evolution and regulation of this behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08819 
PMCID: PMC3187626
PMID: 20360741  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):753-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08920.

Curvature in metabolic scaling.

Kolokotrones T(1), Van Savage, Deeds EJ, Fontana W.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):691-3.

For more than three-quarters of a century it has been assumed that basal
metabolic rate increases as body mass raised to some power p. However, there is
no broad consensus regarding the value of p: whereas many studies have asserted
that p is 3/4 (refs 1-4; 'Kleiber's law'), some have argued that it is 2/3 (refs 
5-7), and others have found that it varies depending on factors like environment 
and taxonomy. Here we show that the relationship between mass and metabolic rate 
has convex curvature on a logarithmic scale, and is therefore not a pure power
law, even after accounting for body temperature. This finding has several
consequences. First, it provides an explanation for the puzzling variability in
estimates of p, settling a long-standing debate. Second, it constitutes a
stringent test for theories of metabolic scaling. A widely debated model based on
vascular system architecture fails this test, and we suggest modifications that
could bring it into compliance with the observed curvature. Third, it raises the 
intriguing question of whether the scaling relation limits body size.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08920 
PMID: 20360740  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):744-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08955.

No climate paradox under the faint early Sun.

Rosing MT(1), Bird DK, Sleep NH, Bjerrum CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Nordic Center for Earth Evolution, Øster Voldgade, Denmark. minik@snm.ku.dk

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):E3-4; discussion E4-5.
    Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):E2-3; discussion E4-5.
    Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):687-9.
    Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):E1-2; discussion E4-5.

Environmental niches in which life first emerged and later evolved on the Earth
have undergone dramatic changes in response to evolving tectonic/geochemical
cycles and to biologic interventions, as well as increases in the Sun's
luminosity of about 25 to 30 per cent over the Earth's history. It has been
inferred that the greenhouse effect of atmospheric CO(2) and/or CH(4) compensated
for the lower solar luminosity and dictated an Archaean climate in which liquid
water was stable in the hydrosphere. Here we demonstrate, however, that the
mineralogy of Archaean sediments, particularly the ubiquitous presence of
mixed-valence Fe(II-III) oxides (magnetite) in banded iron formations is
inconsistent with such high concentrations of greenhouse gases and the metabolic 
constraints of extant methanogens. Prompted by this, and the absence of geologic 
evidence for very high greenhouse-gas concentrations, we hypothesize that a lower
albedo on the Earth, owing to considerably less continental area and to the lack 
of biologically induced cloud condensation nuclei, made an important contribution
to moderating surface temperature in the Archaean eon. Our model calculations
suggest that the lower albedo of the early Earth provided environmental
conditions above the freezing point of water, thus alleviating the need for
extreme greenhouse-gas concentrations to satisfy the faint early Sun paradox.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08955 
PMID: 20360739  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):740-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08954.

Identification of Younger Dryas outburst flood path from Lake Agassiz to the
Arctic Ocean.

Murton JB(1), Bateman MD, Dallimore SR, Teller JT, Yang Z.

Author information: 
(1)Permafrost Laboratory, Department of Geography, University of Sussex, Brighton
BN1 9QJ, UK. .b.murton@sussex.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):657.

The melting Laurentide Ice Sheet discharged thousands of cubic kilometres of
fresh water each year into surrounding oceans, at times suppressing the Atlantic 
meridional overturning circulation and triggering abrupt climate change.
Understanding the physical mechanisms leading to events such as the Younger Dryas
cold interval requires identification of the paths and timing of the freshwater
discharges. Although Broecker et al. hypothesized in 1989 that an outburst from
glacial Lake Agassiz triggered the Younger Dryas, specific evidence has so far
proved elusive, leading Broecker to conclude in 2006 that "our inability to
identify the path taken by the flood is disconcerting". Here we identify the
missing flood path-evident from gravels and a regional erosion surface-running
through the Mackenzie River system in the Canadian Arctic Coastal Plain. Our
modelling of the isostatically adjusted surface in the upstream Fort McMurray
region, and a slight revision of the ice margin at this time, allows Lake Agassiz
to spill into the Mackenzie drainage basin. From optically stimulated
luminescence dating we have determined the approximate age of this Mackenzie
River flood into the Arctic Ocean to be shortly after 13,000 years ago, near the 
start of the Younger Dryas. We attribute to this flood a boulder terrace near
Fort McMurray with calibrated radiocarbon dates of over 11,500 years ago. A large
flood into the Arctic Ocean at the start of the Younger Dryas leads us to reject 
the widespread view that Agassiz overflow at this time was solely eastward into
the North Atlantic Ocean.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08954 
PMID: 20360738 


677. Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):737-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08904.

Generation of electron beams carrying orbital angular momentum.

Uchida M(1), Tonomura A.

Author information: 
(1)Advanced Science Institute, RIKEN (The Institute of Physical and Chemical
Research), Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan. masaya1.uchida@gmail.com

All forms of waves can contain phase singularities. In the case of optical waves,
a light beam with a phase singularity carries orbital angular momentum, and such 
beams have found a range of applications in optical manipulation, quantum
information and astronomy. Here we report the generation of an electron beam with
a phase singularity propagating in free space, which we achieve by passing a
plane electron wave through a spiral phase plate constructed naturally from a
stack of graphite thin films. The interference pattern between the final beam and
a plane electron wave in a transmission electron microscope shows the 'Y'-like
defect pattern characteristic of a beam carrying a phase singularity with a
topological charge equal to one. This fundamentally new electron degree of
freedom could find application in a number of research areas, as is the case for 
polarized electron beams.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08904 
PMID: 20360737 


678. Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):728-32. doi: 10.1038/nature08893.

N-myristoyltransferase inhibitors as new leads to treat sleeping sickness.

Frearson JA(1), Brand S, McElroy SP, Cleghorn LA, Smid O, Stojanovski L, Price
HP, Guther ML, Torrie LS, Robinson DA, Hallyburton I, Mpamhanga CP, Brannigan JA,
Wilkinson AJ, Hodgkinson M, Hui R, Qiu W, Raimi OG, van Aalten DM, Brenk R,
Gilbert IH, Read KD, Fairlamb AH, Ferguson MA, Smith DF, Wyatt PG.

Author information: 
(1)Drug Discovery Unit, Division of Biological Chemistry and Drug Discovery,
University of Dundee, Dundee DD1 5EH, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):689-90.

African sleeping sickness or human African trypanosomiasis, caused by Trypanosoma
brucei spp., is responsible for approximately 30,000 deaths each year. Available 
treatments for this disease are poor, with unacceptable efficacy and safety
profiles, particularly in the late stage of the disease when the parasite has
infected the central nervous system. Here we report the validation of a molecular
target and the discovery of associated lead compounds with the potential to
address this lack of suitable treatments. Inhibition of this target-T. brucei
N-myristoyltransferase-leads to rapid killing of trypanosomes both in vitro and
in vivo and cures trypanosomiasis in mice. These high-affinity inhibitors bind
into the peptide substrate pocket of the enzyme and inhibit protein
N-myristoylation in trypanosomes. The compounds identified have promising
pharmaceutical properties and represent an opportunity to develop oral drugs to
treat this devastating disease. Our studies validate T. brucei
N-myristoyltransferase as a promising therapeutic target for human African
trypanosomiasis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08893 
PMCID: PMC2917743
PMID: 20360736  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):721-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08869.

Phenotypic profiling of the human genome by time-lapse microscopy reveals cell
division genes.

Neumann B(1), Walter T, Hériché JK, Bulkescher J, Erfle H, Conrad C, Rogers P,
Poser I, Held M, Liebel U, Cetin C, Sieckmann F, Pau G, Kabbe R, Wünsche A,
Satagopam V, Schmitz MH, Chapuis C, Gerlich DW, Schneider R, Eils R, Huber W,
Peters JM, Hyman AA, Durbin R, Pepperkok R, Ellenberg J.

Author information: 
(1)MitoCheck Project Group, European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL),
Meyerhofstrasse 1, D-69117 Heidelberg, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):684-5.
    Nat Methods. 2010 Jun;7(6):421.

Despite our rapidly growing knowledge about the human genome, we do not know all 
of the genes required for some of the most basic functions of life. To start to
fill this gap we developed a high-throughput phenotypic screening platform
combining potent gene silencing by RNA interference, time-lapse microscopy and
computational image processing. We carried out a genome-wide phenotypic profiling
of each of the approximately 21,000 human protein-coding genes by two-day live
imaging of fluorescently labelled chromosomes. Phenotypes were scored
quantitatively by computational image processing, which allowed us to identify
hundreds of human genes involved in diverse biological functions including cell
division, migration and survival. As part of the Mitocheck consortium, this study
provides an in-depth analysis of cell division phenotypes and makes the entire
high-content data set available as a resource to the community.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08869 
PMCID: PMC3108885
PMID: 20360735  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):713-20. doi: 10.1038/nature08979.

Genome-wide association study of CNVs in 16,000 cases of eight common diseases
and 3,000 shared controls.

Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium, Craddock N, Hurles ME, Cardin N, Pearson 
RD, Plagnol V, Robson S, Vukcevic D, Barnes C, Conrad DF, Giannoulatou E, Holmes 
C, Marchini JL, Stirrups K, Tobin MD, Wain LV, Yau C, Aerts J, Ahmad T, Andrews
TD, Arbury H, Attwood A, Auton A, Ball SG, Balmforth AJ, Barrett JC, Barroso I,
Barton A, Bennett AJ, Bhaskar S, Blaszczyk K, Bowes J, Brand OJ, Braund PS,
Bredin F, Breen G, Brown MJ, Bruce IN, Bull J, Burren OS, Burton J, Byrnes J,
Caesar S, Clee CM, Coffey AJ, Connell JM, Cooper JD, Dominiczak AF, Downes K,
Drummond HE, Dudakia D, Dunham A, Ebbs B, Eccles D, Edkins S, Edwards C, Elliot
A, Emery P, Evans DM, Evans G, Eyre S, Farmer A, Ferrier IN, Feuk L, Fitzgerald
T, Flynn E, Forbes A, Forty L, Franklyn JA, Freathy RM, Gibbs P, Gilbert P,
Gokumen O, Gordon-Smith K, Gray E, Green E, Groves CJ, Grozeva D, Gwilliam R,
Hall A, Hammond N, Hardy M, Harrison P, Hassanali N, Hebaishi H, Hines S, Hinks
A, Hitman GA, Hocking L, Howard E, Howard P, Howson JM, Hughes D, Hunt S, Isaacs 
JD, Jain M, Jewell DP, Johnson T, Jolley JD, Jones IR, Jones LA, Kirov G,
Langford CF, Lango-Allen H, Lathrop GM, Lee J, Lee KL, Lees C, Lewis K, Lindgren 
CM, Maisuria-Armer M, Maller J, Mansfield J, Martin P, Massey DC, McArdle WL,
McGuffin P, McLay KE, Mentzer A, Mimmack ML, Morgan AE, Morris AP, Mowat C, Myers
S, Newman W, Nimmo ER, O'Donovan MC, Onipinla A, Onyiah I, Ovington NR, Owen MJ, 
Palin K, Parnell K, Pernet D, Perry JR, Phillips A, Pinto D, Prescott NJ,
Prokopenko I, Quail MA, Rafelt S, Rayner NW, Redon R, Reid DM, Renwick, Ring SM, 
Robertson N, Russell E, St Clair D, Sambrook JG, Sanderson JD, Schuilenburg H,
Scott CE, Scott R, Seal S, Shaw-Hawkins S, Shields BM, Simmonds MJ, Smyth DJ,
Somaskantharajah E, Spanova K, Steer S, Stephens J, Stevens HE, Stone MA, Su Z,
Symmons DP, Thompson JR, Thomson W, Travers ME, Turnbull C, Valsesia A, Walker M,
Walker NM, Wallace C, Warren-Perry M, Watkins NA, Webster J, Weedon MN, Wilson
AG, Woodburn M, Wordsworth BP, Young AH, Zeggini E, Carter NP, Frayling TM, Lee
C, McVean G, Munroe PB, Palotie A, Sawcer SJ, Scherer SW, Strachan DP,
Tyler-Smith C, Brown MA, Burton PR, Caulfield MJ, Compston A, Farrall M, Gough
SC, Hall AS, Hattersley AT, Hill AV, Mathew CG, Pembrey M, Satsangi J, Stratton
MR, Worthington J, Deloukas P, Duncanson A, Kwiatkowski DP, McCarthy MI, Ouwehand
W, Parkes M, Rahman N, Todd JA, Samani NJ, Donnelly P.

Copy number variants (CNVs) account for a major proportion of human genetic
polymorphism and have been predicted to have an important role in genetic
susceptibility to common disease. To address this we undertook a large, direct
genome-wide study of association between CNVs and eight common human diseases.
Using a purpose-designed array we typed approximately 19,000 individuals into
distinct copy-number classes at 3,432 polymorphic CNVs, including an estimated
approximately 50% of all common CNVs larger than 500 base pairs. We identified
several biological artefacts that lead to false-positive associations, including 
systematic CNV differences between DNAs derived from blood and cell lines.
Association testing and follow-up replication analyses confirmed three loci where
CNVs were associated with disease-IRGM for Crohn's disease, HLA for Crohn's
disease, rheumatoid arthritis and type 1 diabetes, and TSPAN8 for type 2
diabetes-although in each case the locus had previously been identified in single
nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)-based studies, reflecting our observation that most
common CNVs that are well-typed on our array are well tagged by SNPs and so have 
been indirectly explored through SNP studies. We conclude that common CNVs that
can be typed on existing platforms are unlikely to contribute greatly to the
genetic basis of common human diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08979 
PMCID: PMC2892339
PMID: 20360734  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):E1; discussion E2. doi: 10.1038/nature08807.

FTO effect on energy demand versus food intake.

Speakman JR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Aberdeen,
Aberdeen AB24 2TZ, Scotland, UK. j.speakman@abdn.ac.uk

Comment on
    Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):894-8.

An intronic single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) (rs9939609) close to the fat
mass and obesity associated gene (FTO) was the first SNP to be discovered with
common variants linked to body mass index; at least seven studies in humans have 
implicated this SNP with variations in food intake and satiety, and four studies 
have rejected an effect on energy expenditure normalized for body weight. Fischer
et al. recently constructed a mouse in which the homologous Fto gene was
inactivated (Fto(-/-)) and showed that these mice were protected from obesity.
This observation strongly implicates the effects of the intronic SNP rs9939609 as
arising due to an effect on the closest gene (FTO). However, the suggested
mechanism underlying this effect in mice was opposite to that in humans. The
Fto(-/-) mice showed no significant differences in food intake relative to
wild-types litter-mates but had an elevated metabolic rate. The apparent
contrasting effects of the gene in humans and mice is worthy of closer
investigation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08807 
PMID: 20360686  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):733-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08880. Epub 2010 Mar 21.

Intense star formation within resolved compact regions in a galaxy at z = 2.3.

Swinbank AM(1), Smail I, Longmore S, Harris AI, Baker AJ, De Breuck C, Richard J,
Edge AC, Ivison RJ, Blundell R, Coppin KE, Cox P, Gurwell M, Hainline LJ, Krips
M, Lundgren A, Neri R, Siana B, Siringo G, Stark DP, Wilner D, Younger JD.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Computational Cosmology, Durham University, South Road, Durham
DH1 3LE, UK. a.m.swinbank@dur.ac.uk

Massive galaxies in the early Universe have been shown to be forming stars at
surprisingly high rates. Prominent examples are dust-obscured galaxies which are 
luminous when observed at sub-millimetre wavelengths and which may be forming
stars at a rate of 1,000 solar masses (M(middle dot in circle)) per year. These
intense bursts of star formation are believed to be driven by mergers between
gas-rich galaxies. Probing the properties of individual star-forming regions
within these galaxies, however, is beyond the spatial resolution and sensitivity 
of even the largest telescopes at present. Here we report observations of the
sub-millimetre galaxy SMMJ2135-0102 at redshift z = 2.3259, which has been
gravitationally magnified by a factor of 32 by a massive foreground galaxy
cluster lens. This magnification, when combined with high-resolution
sub-millimetre imaging, resolves the star-forming regions at a linear scale of
only 100 parsecs. We find that the luminosity densities of these star-forming
regions are comparable to the dense cores of giant molecular clouds in the local 
Universe, but they are about a hundred times larger and 10(7) times more
luminous. Although vigorously star-forming, the underlying physics of the
star-formation processes at z approximately 2 appears to be similar to that seen 
in local galaxies, although the energetics are unlike anything found in the
present-day Universe.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08880 
PMID: 20305639 


683. Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):778-82. doi: 10.1038/nature08853. Epub 2010 Mar 21.

Identification of two evolutionarily conserved genes regulating processing of
engulfed apoptotic cells.

Kinchen JM(1), Ravichandran KS.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Cell Clearance, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia
22908, USA. kinchen@virginia.edu

Engulfment of apoptotic cells occurs throughout life in multicellular organisms. 
Impaired apoptotic cell clearance (due to defective recognition, internalization 
or degradation) results in autoimmune disease. One fundamental challenge in
understanding how defects in corpse removal translate into diseased states is the
identification of critical components orchestrating the different stages of
engulfment. Here we use genetic, cell biological and molecular studies in
Caenorhabditis elegans and mammalian cells to identify SAND-1 and its partner
CCZ-1 as new factors in corpse removal. In worms deficient in either sand-1 or
ccz-1, apoptotic cells are internalized and the phagosomes recruit the small
GTPase RAB-5 but fail to progress to the subsequent RAB-7(+) stage. The mammalian
orthologues of SAND-1, namely Mon1a and Mon1b, were similarly required for
phagosome maturation. Mechanistically, Mon1 interacts with GTP-bound Rab5,
identifying Mon1 as a previously unrecognized Rab5 effector. Moreover, a
Mon1-Ccz1 complex (but not either protein alone) could bind Rab7 and could also
influence Rab7 activation, suggesting Mon1-Ccz1 as an important link in
progression from the Rab5-positive stage to the Rab7-positive stage of phagosome 
maturation. Taken together, these data identify SAND-1 (Mon1) and CCZ-1 (Ccz1) as
critical and evolutionarily conserved components regulating the processing of
ingested apoptotic cell corpses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08853 
PMCID: PMC2901565
PMID: 20305638  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):697-703. doi: 10.1038/nature08967. Epub 2010 Mar 17.

Quantum ground state and single-phonon control of a mechanical resonator.

O'Connell AD(1), Hofheinz M, Ansmann M, Bialczak RC, Lenander M, Lucero E, Neeley
M, Sank D, Wang H, Weides M, Wenner J, Martinis JM, Cleland AN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of California, Santa Barbara, California
93106, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):685-6.

Quantum mechanics provides a highly accurate description of a wide variety of
physical systems. However, a demonstration that quantum mechanics applies equally
to macroscopic mechanical systems has been a long-standing challenge, hindered by
the difficulty of cooling a mechanical mode to its quantum ground state. The
temperatures required are typically far below those attainable with standard
cryogenic methods, so significant effort has been devoted to developing
alternative cooling techniques. Once in the ground state, quantum-limited
measurements must then be demonstrated. Here, using conventional cryogenic
refrigeration, we show that we can cool a mechanical mode to its quantum ground
state by using a microwave-frequency mechanical oscillator-a 'quantum
drum'-coupled to a quantum bit, which is used to measure the quantum state of the
resonator. We further show that we can controllably create single quantum
excitations (phonons) in the resonator, thus taking the first steps to complete
quantum control of a mechanical system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08967 
PMID: 20237473 


685. Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):748-52. doi: 10.1038/nature08844. Epub 2010 Mar 17.

Hominins on Flores, Indonesia, by one million years ago.

Brumm A(1), Jensen GM, van den Bergh GD, Morwood MJ, Kurniawan I, Aziz F, Storey 
M.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Archaeological Science, School of Earth and Environmental Sciences,
University of Wollongong, Wollongong, New South Wales 2522, Australia.
abrumm@uow.edu.au

Previous excavations at Mata Menge and Boa Lesa in the Soa Basin of Flores,
Indonesia, recovered stone artefacts in association with fossilized remains of
the large-bodied Stegodon florensis florensis. Zircon fission-track ages from
these sites indicated that hominins had colonized the island by 0.88 +/- 0.07
million years (Myr) ago. Here we describe the contents, context and age of Wolo
Sege, a recently discovered archaeological site in the Soa Basin that has in situ
stone artefacts and that lies stratigraphically below Mata Menge and immediately 
above the basement breccias of the basin. We show using (40)Ar/(39)Ar dating that
an ignimbrite overlying the artefact layers at Wolo Sege was erupted 1.02 +/-
0.02 Myr ago, providing a new minimum age for hominins on Flores. This predates
the disappearance from the Soa Basin of 'pygmy' Stegodon sondaari and Geochelone 
spp. (giant tortoise), as evident at the nearby site of Tangi Talo, which has
been dated to 0.90 +/- 0.07 Myr ago. It now seems that this extirpation or
possible extinction event and the associated faunal turnover were the result of
natural processes rather than the arrival of hominins. It also appears that the
volcanic and fluvio-lacustrine deposits infilling the Soa Basin may not be old
enough to register the initial arrival of hominins on the island.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08844 
PMID: 20237472  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):792-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08839. Epub 2010 Mar 14.

Phosphorylation of histone H3T6 by PKCbeta(I) controls demethylation at histone
H3K4.

Metzger E(1), Imhof A, Patel D, Kahl P, Hoffmeyer K, Friedrichs N, Müller JM,
Greschik H, Kirfel J, Ji S, Kunowska N, Beisenherz-Huss C, Günther T, Buettner R,
Schüle R.

Author information: 
(1)Urologische Klinik/Frauenklinik und Zentrale Klinische Forschung, Klinikum der
Universität Freiburg, Breisacherstrasse 66, Germany.

Demethylation at distinct lysine residues in histone H3 by lysine-specific
demethylase 1 (LSD1) causes either gene repression or activation. As a component 
of co-repressor complexes, LSD1 contributes to target gene repression by removing
mono- and dimethyl marks from lysine 4 of histone H3 (H3K4). In contrast, during 
androgen receptor (AR)-activated gene expression, LSD1 removes mono- and dimethyl
marks from lysine 9 of histone H3 (H3K9). Yet, the mechanisms that control this
dual specificity of demethylation are unknown. Here we show that phosphorylation 
of histone H3 at threonine 6 (H3T6) by protein kinase C beta I (PKCbeta(I), also 
known as PRKCbeta) is the key event that prevents LSD1 from demethylating H3K4
during AR-dependent gene activation. In vitro, histone H3 peptides methylated at 
lysine 4 and phosphorylated at threonine 6 are no longer LSD1 substrates. In
vivo, PKCbeta(I) co-localizes with AR and LSD1 on target gene promoters and
phosphorylates H3T6 after androgen-induced gene expression. RNA interference
(RNAi)-mediated knockdown of PKCbeta(I) abrogates H3T6 phosphorylation, enhances 
demethylation at H3K4, and inhibits AR-dependent transcription. Activation of
PKCbeta(I) requires androgen-dependent recruitment of the gatekeeper kinase
protein kinase C (PKC)-related kinase 1 (PRK1). Notably, increased levels of
PKCbeta(I) and phosphorylated H3T6 (H3T6ph) positively correlate with high
Gleason scores of prostate carcinomas, and inhibition of PKCbeta(I) blocks
AR-induced tumour cell proliferation in vitro and cancer progression of tumour
xenografts in vivo. Together, our data establish that androgen-dependent kinase
signalling leads to the writing of the new chromatin mark H3T6ph, which in
consequence prevents removal of active methyl marks from H3K4 during
AR-stimulated gene expression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08839 
PMID: 20228790  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):768-72. doi: 10.1038/nature08872. Epub 2010 Mar 10.

Understanding mechanisms underlying human gene expression variation with RNA
sequencing.

Pickrell JK(1), Marioni JC, Pai AA, Degner JF, Engelhardt BE, Nkadori E,
Veyrieras JB, Stephens M, Gilad Y, Pritchard JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Genetics, The University of Chicago, Chicago 60637, USA.
pickrell@uchicago.edu

Understanding the genetic mechanisms underlying natural variation in gene
expression is a central goal of both medical and evolutionary genetics, and
studies of expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) have become an important
tool for achieving this goal. Although all eQTL studies so far have assayed
messenger RNA levels using expression microarrays, recent advances in RNA
sequencing enable the analysis of transcript variation at unprecedented
resolution. We sequenced RNA from 69 lymphoblastoid cell lines derived from
unrelated Nigerian individuals that have been extensively genotyped by the
International HapMap Project. By pooling data from all individuals, we generated 
a map of the transcriptional landscape of these cells, identifying extensive use 
of unannotated untranslated regions and more than 100 new putative protein-coding
exons. Using the genotypes from the HapMap project, we identified more than a
thousand genes at which genetic variation influences overall expression levels or
splicing. We demonstrate that eQTLs near genes generally act by a mechanism
involving allele-specific expression, and that variation that influences the
inclusion of an exon is enriched within and near the consensus splice sites. Our 
results illustrate the power of high-throughput sequencing for the joint analysis
of variation in transcription, splicing and allele-specific expression across
individuals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08872 
PMCID: PMC3089435
PMID: 20220758  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):773-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08903. Epub 2010 Mar 10.

Transcriptome genetics using second generation sequencing in a Caucasian
population.

Montgomery SB(1), Sammeth M, Gutierrez-Arcelus M, Lach RP, Ingle C, Nisbett J,
Guigo R, Dermitzakis ET.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetic Medicine and Development, University of Geneva Medical
School, Geneva, 1211 Switzerland. stephen.montgomery@unige.ch

Gene expression is an important phenotype that informs about genetic and
environmental effects on cellular state. Many studies have previously identified 
genetic variants for gene expression phenotypes using custom and commercially
available microarrays. Second generation sequencing technologies are now
providing unprecedented access to the fine structure of the transcriptome. We
have sequenced the mRNA fraction of the transcriptome in 60 extended HapMap
individuals of European descent and have combined these data with genetic
variants from the HapMap3 project. We have quantified exon abundance based on
read depth and have also developed methods to quantify whole transcript
abundance. We have found that approximately 10 million reads of sequencing can
provide access to the same dynamic range as arrays with better quantification of 
alternative and highly abundant transcripts. Correlation with SNPs (small
nucleotide polymorphisms) leads to a larger discovery of eQTLs (expression
quantitative trait loci) than with arrays. We also detect a substantial number of
variants that influence the structure of mature transcripts indicating variants
responsible for alternative splicing. Finally, measures of allele-specific
expression allowed the identification of rare eQTLs and allelic differences in
transcript structure. This analysis shows that high throughput sequencing
technologies reveal new properties of genetic effects on the transcriptome and
allow the exploration of genetic effects in cellular processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08903 
PMCID: PMC3836232
PMID: 20220756  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):783-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08827. Epub 2010 Mar 7.

Spatial control of EGF receptor activation by reversible dimerization on living
cells.

Chung I(1), Akita R, Vandlen R, Toomre D, Schlessinger J, Mellman I.

Author information: 
(1)Genentech, Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco, California 94080, USA.

Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is a type I receptor tyrosine kinase, the
deregulation of which has been implicated in a variety of human carcinomas. EGFR 
signalling is preceded by receptor dimerization, typically thought to result from
a ligand-induced conformational change in the ectodomain that exposes a loop
(dimerization arm) required for receptor association. Ligand binding may also
trigger allosteric changes in the cytoplasmic domain of the receptor that is
crucial for signalling. Despite these insights, ensemble-averaging approaches
have not determined the precise mechanism of receptor activation in situ. Using
quantum-dot-based optical tracking of single molecules combined with a novel
time-dependent diffusivity analysis, here we present the dimerization dynamics of
individual EGFRs on living cells. Before ligand addition, EGFRs spontaneously
formed finite-lifetime dimers kinetically stabilized by their dimerization arms. 
The dimers were primed both for ligand binding and for signalling, such that
after EGF addition they rapidly showed a very slow diffusivity state that
correlated with activation. Although the kinetic stability of unliganded dimers
was in principle sufficient for EGF-independent activation, ligand binding was
still required for signalling. Interestingly, dimers were enriched in the cell
periphery in an actin- and receptor-expression-dependent fashion, resulting in a 
peripheral enhancement of EGF-induced signalling that may enable polarized
responses to growth factors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08827 
PMID: 20208517  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):704-12. doi: 10.1038/nature08516. Epub 2009 Oct 7.

Origins and functional impact of copy number variation in the human genome.

Conrad DF(1), Pinto D, Redon R, Feuk L, Gokcumen O, Zhang Y, Aerts J, Andrews TD,
Barnes C, Campbell P, Fitzgerald T, Hu M, Ihm CH, Kristiansson K, Macarthur DG,
Macdonald JR, Onyiah I, Pang AW, Robson S, Stirrups K, Valsesia A, Walter K, Wei 
J; Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium, Tyler-Smith C, Carter NP, Lee C,
Scherer SW, Hurles ME.

Author information: 
(1)The Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton,
Cambridge, CB10 1SA UK.

Structural variations of DNA greater than 1 kilobase in size account for most
bases that vary among human genomes, but are still relatively under-ascertained. 
Here we use tiling oligonucleotide microarrays, comprising 42 million probes, to 
generate a comprehensive map of 11,700 copy number variations (CNVs) greater than
443 base pairs, of which most (8,599) have been validated independently. For
4,978 of these CNVs, we generated reference genotypes from 450 individuals of
European, African or East Asian ancestry. The predominant mutational mechanisms
differ among CNV size classes. Retrotransposition has duplicated and inserted
some coding and non-coding DNA segments randomly around the genome. Furthermore, 
by correlation with known trait-associated single nucleotide polymorphisms
(SNPs), we identified 30 loci with CNVs that are candidates for influencing
disease susceptibility. Despite this, having assessed the completeness of our map
and the patterns of linkage disequilibrium between CNVs and SNPs, we conclude
that, for complex traits, the heritability void left by genome-wide association
studies will not be accounted for by common CNVs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08516 
PMCID: PMC3330748
PMID: 19812545  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):615-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08842.

Haploid plants produced by centromere-mediated genome elimination.

Ravi M(1), Chan SW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Biology, University of California, Davis, Davis,
California 95616, USA.

Production of haploid plants that inherit chromosomes from only one parent can
greatly accelerate plant breeding. Haploids generated from a heterozygous
individual and converted to diploid create instant homozygous lines, bypassing
generations of inbreeding. Two methods are generally used to produce haploids.
First, cultured gametophyte cells may be regenerated into haploid plants, but
many species and genotypes are recalcitrant to this process. Second, haploids can
be induced from rare interspecific crosses, in which one parental genome is
eliminated after fertilization. The molecular basis for genome elimination is not
understood, but one theory posits that centromeres from the two parent species
interact unequally with the mitotic spindle, causing selective chromosome loss.
Here we show that haploid Arabidopsis thaliana plants can be easily generated
through seeds by manipulating a single centromere protein, the
centromere-specific histone CENH3 (called CENP-A in human). When cenh3 null
mutants expressing altered CENH3 proteins are crossed to wild type, chromosomes
from the mutant are eliminated, producing haploid progeny. Haploids are
spontaneously converted into fertile diploids through meiotic non-reduction,
allowing their genotype to be perpetuated. Maternal and paternal haploids can be 
generated through reciprocal crosses. We have also exploited centromere-mediated 
genome elimination to convert a natural tetraploid Arabidopsis into a diploid,
reducing its ploidy to simplify breeding. As CENH3 is universal in eukaryotes,
our method may be extended to produce haploids in any plant species.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08842 
PMID: 20336146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):606-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08899.

Zebrafish heart regeneration occurs by cardiomyocyte dedifferentiation and
proliferation.

Jopling C(1), Sleep E, Raya M, Martí M, Raya A, Izpisúa Belmonte JC.

Author information: 
(1)Center of Regenerative Medicine in Barcelona, Spain.

Comment in
    Circ Res. 2010 Sep 3;107(5):570-2.

Although mammalian hearts show almost no ability to regenerate, there is a
growing initiative to determine whether existing cardiomyocytes or progenitor
cells can be coaxed into eliciting a regenerative response. In contrast to
mammals, several non-mammalian vertebrate species are able to regenerate their
hearts, including the zebrafish, which can fully regenerate its heart after
amputation of up to 20% of the ventricle. To address directly the source of newly
formed cardiomyocytes during zebrafish heart regeneration, we first established a
genetic strategy to trace the lineage of cardiomyocytes in the adult fish, on the
basis of the Cre/lox system widely used in the mouse. Here we use this system to 
show that regenerated heart muscle cells are derived from the proliferation of
differentiated cardiomyocytes. Furthermore, we show that proliferating
cardiomyocytes undergo limited dedifferentiation characterized by the disassembly
of their sarcomeric structure, detachment from one another and the expression of 
regulators of cell-cycle progression. Specifically, we show that the gene product
of polo-like kinase 1 (plk1) is an essential component of cardiomyocyte
proliferation during heart regeneration. Our data provide the first direct
evidence for the source of proliferating cardiomyocytes during zebrafish heart
regeneration and indicate that stem or progenitor cells are not significantly
involved in this process.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08899 
PMCID: PMC2846535
PMID: 20336145  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):601-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08804.

Primary contribution to zebrafish heart regeneration by gata4(+) cardiomyocytes.

Kikuchi K(1), Holdway JE, Werdich AA, Anderson RM, Fang Y, Egnaczyk GF, Evans T, 
Macrae CA, Stainier DY, Poss KD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North
Carolina 27710, USA.

Comment in
    Circ Res. 2010 Sep 3;107(5):570-2.

Recent studies indicate that mammals, including humans, maintain some capacity to
renew cardiomyocytes throughout postnatal life. Yet, there is little or no
significant cardiac muscle regeneration after an injury such as acute myocardial 
infarction. By contrast, zebrafish efficiently regenerate lost cardiac muscle,
providing a model for understanding how natural heart regeneration may be blocked
or enhanced. In the absence of lineage-tracing technology applicable to adult
zebrafish, the cellular origins of newly regenerated cardiac muscle have remained
unclear. Using new genetic fate-mapping approaches, here we identify a population
of cardiomyocytes that become activated after resection of the ventricular apex
and contribute prominently to cardiac muscle regeneration. Through the use of a
transgenic reporter strain, we found that cardiomyocytes throughout the
subepicardial ventricular layer trigger expression of the embryonic cardiogenesis
gene gata4 within a week of trauma, before expression localizes to proliferating 
cardiomyocytes surrounding and within the injury site. Cre-recombinase-based
lineage-tracing of cells expressing gata4 before evident regeneration, or of
cells expressing the contractile gene cmlc2 before injury, each labelled most
cardiac muscle in the ensuing regenerate. By optical voltage mapping of surface
myocardium in whole ventricles, we found that electrical conduction is
re-established between existing and regenerated cardiomyocytes between 2 and 4
weeks post-injury. After injury and prolonged fibroblast growth factor receptor
inhibition to arrest cardiac regeneration and enable scar formation, experimental
release of the signalling block led to gata4 expression and morphological
improvement of the injured ventricular wall without loss of scar tissue. Our
results indicate that electrically coupled cardiac muscle regenerates after
resection injury, primarily through activation and expansion of cardiomyocyte
populations. These findings have implications for promoting regeneration of the
injured human heart.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08804 
PMCID: PMC3040215
PMID: 20336144  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):579-82. doi: 10.1038/nature08930.

Temperature-associated increases in the global soil respiration record.

Bond-Lamberty B(1), Thomson A.

Author information: 
(1)Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Joint Global Change Research Institute 
at the University of Maryland-College Park, 5825 University Research Court, Suite
3500, College Park, Maryland 20740, USA. bondlamberty@pnl.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):499-500.

Soil respiration, R(S), the flux of microbially and plant-respired carbon dioxide
(CO(2)) from the soil surface to the atmosphere, is the second-largest
terrestrial carbon flux. However, the dynamics of R(S) are not well understood
and the global flux remains poorly constrained. Ecosystem warming experiments,
modelling analyses and fundamental biokinetics all suggest that R(S) should
change with climate. This has been difficult to confirm observationally because
of the high spatial variability of R(S), inaccessibility of the soil medium and
the inability of remote-sensing instruments to measure R(S) on large scales.
Despite these constraints, it may be possible to discern climate-driven changes
in regional or global R(S) values in the extant four-decade record of R(S)
chamber measurements. Here we construct a database of worldwide R(S) observations
matched with high-resolution historical climate data and find a previously
unknown temporal trend in the R(S) record after accounting for mean annual
climate, leaf area, nitrogen deposition and changes in CO(2) measurement
technique. We find that the air temperature anomaly (the deviation from the
1961-1990 mean) is significantly and positively correlated with changes in R(S). 
We estimate that the global R(S) in 2008 (that is, the flux integrated over the
Earth's land surface over 2008) was 98 +/- 12 Pg C and that it increased by 0.1
Pg C yr(-1) between 1989 and 2008, implying a global R(S) response to air
temperature (Q(10)) of 1.5. An increasing global R(S) value does not necessarily 
constitute a positive feedback to the atmosphere, as it could be driven by higher
carbon inputs to soil rather than by mobilization of stored older carbon. The
available data are, however, consistent with an acceleration of the terrestrial
carbon cycle in response to global climate change.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08930 
PMID: 20336143  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):575-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08906.

Lock and key colloids.

Sacanna S(1), Irvine WT, Chaikin PM, Pine DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, New York University, 4 Washington Place, New York, New 
York 10003, USA. s.sacanna@nyu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):496-8.

New functional materials can in principle be created using colloids that
self-assemble into a desired structure by means of a programmable recognition and
binding scheme. This idea has been explored by attaching 'programmed' DNA strands
to nanometre- and micrometre- sized particles and then using DNA hybridization to
direct the placement of the particles in the final assembly. Here we demonstrate 
an alternative recognition mechanism for directing the assembly of composite
structures, based on particles with complementary shapes. Our system, which uses 
Fischer's lock-and-key principle, employs colloidal spheres as keys and
monodisperse colloidal particles with a spherical cavity as locks that bind
spontaneously and reversibly via the depletion interaction. The lock-and-key
binding is specific because it is controlled by how closely the size of a
spherical colloidal key particle matches the radius of the spherical cavity of
the lock particle. The strength of the binding can be further tuned by adjusting 
the solution composition or temperature. The composite assemblies have the unique
feature of having flexible bonds, allowing us to produce flexible dimeric,
trimeric and tetrameric colloidal molecules as well as more complex colloidal
polymers. We expect that this lock-and-key recognition mechanism will find wider 
use as a means of programming and directing colloidal self-assembly.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08906 
PMID: 20336142 


696. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):571-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08879.

Atom-by-atom structural and chemical analysis by annular dark-field electron
microscopy.

Krivanek OL(1), Chisholm MF, Nicolosi V, Pennycook TJ, Corbin GJ, Dellby N,
Murfitt MF, Own CS, Szilagyi ZS, Oxley MP, Pantelides ST, Pennycook SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Nion Co., 1102 8th Street, Kirkland, Washington 98033, USA. krivanek@nion.com

Direct imaging and chemical identification of all the atoms in a material with
unknown three-dimensional structure would constitute a very powerful general
analysis tool. Transmission electron microscopy should in principle be able to
fulfil this role, as many scientists including Feynman realized early on. It
images matter with electrons that scatter strongly from individual atoms and
whose wavelengths are about 50 times smaller than an atom. Recently the technique
has advanced greatly owing to the introduction of aberration-corrected optics.
However, neither electron microscopy nor any other experimental technique has yet
been able to resolve and identify all the atoms in a non-periodic material
consisting of several atomic species. Here we show that annular dark-field
imaging in an aberration-corrected scanning transmission electron microscope
optimized for low voltage operation can resolve and identify the chemical type of
every atom in monolayer hexagonal boron nitride that contains substitutional
defects. Three types of atomic substitutions were found and identified: carbon
substituting for boron, carbon substituting for nitrogen, and oxygen substituting
for nitrogen. The substitutions caused in-plane distortions in the boron nitride 
monolayer of about 0.1 A magnitude, which were directly resolved, and verified by
density functional theory calculations. The results demonstrate that atom-by-atom
structural and chemical analysis of all radiation-damage-resistant atoms present 
in, and on top of, ultra-thin sheets has now become possible.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08879 
PMID: 20336141  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):566-70. doi: 10.1038/nature08941.

Anomalous structure in the single particle spectrum of the fractional quantum
Hall effect.

Dial OE(1), Ashoori RC, Pfeiffer LN, West KW.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
dial@alum.mit.edu

The two-dimensional electron system is a powerful laboratory for investigating
the physics of interacting particles. Application of a large magnetic field
produces massively degenerate quantum levels known as Landau levels; within a
Landau level the kinetic energy of the electrons is suppressed, and
electron-electron interactions set the only energy scale. Coulomb interactions
break the degeneracy of the Landau levels and can cause the electrons to order
into complex ground states. Here we observe, in the high energy single particle
spectrum of this system, salient and unexpected structure that extends across a
wide range of Landau level filling fractions. The structure appears only when the
two-dimensional electron system is cooled to very low temperatures, indicating
that it arises from delicate ground state correlations. We characterize this
structure by its evolution with changing electron density and applied magnetic
field, and present two possible models for understanding these observations. Some
of the energies of the features agree qualitatively with what might be expected
for composite fermions, which have proven effective for interpreting other
experiments in this regime. At the same time, a simple model with electrons
localized on ordered lattice sites also generates structure similar to that
observed in the experiment. Neither of these models alone is sufficient to
explain the observations across the entire range of densities measured. The
discovery of this unexpected prominent structure in the single particle spectrum 
of an otherwise thoroughly studied system suggests that there exist core features
of the two-dimensional electron system that have yet to be understood.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08941 
PMID: 20336140 


698. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):562-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08881.

Escape of about five per cent of Lyman-alpha photons from high-redshift
star-forming galaxies.

Hayes M(1), Ostlin G, Schaerer D, Mas-Hesse JM, Leitherer C, Atek H, Kunth D,
Verhamme A, de Barros S, Melinder J.

Author information: 
(1)Observatoire Astronomique de l'Université de Genève, 51 chemin des Maillettes,
CH-1290 Sauverny, Switzerland. matthew.hayes@unige.ch

The Lyman-alpha (Lyalpha) emission line is the primary observational signature of
star-forming galaxies at the highest redshifts, and has enabled the compilation
of large samples of galaxies with which to study cosmic evolution. The resonant
nature of the line, however, means that Lyalpha photons scatter in the neutral
interstellar medium of their host galaxies, and their sensitivity to absorption
by interstellar dust may therefore be greatly enhanced. This implies that the
Lyalpha luminosity may be significantly reduced, or even completely suppressed.
Hitherto, no unbiased empirical test of the escaping fraction (f(esc)) of Lyalpha
photons has been performed at high redshifts. Here we report that the average
f(esc) from star-forming galaxies at redshift z = 2.2 is just 5 per cent by
performing a blind narrowband survey in Lyalpha and Halpha. This implies that
numerous conclusions based on Lyalpha-selected samples will require upwards
revision by an order of magnitude and we provide a benchmark for this revision.
We demonstrate that almost 90 per cent of star-forming galaxies emit insufficient
Lyalpha to be detected by standard selection criteria. Both samples show an
anti-correlation of f(esc) with dust content, and we show that Lyalpha- and
Halpha-selection recovers populations that differ substantially in dust content
and f(esc).

DOI: 10.1038/nature08881 
PMID: 20336139 


699. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):549-53. doi: 10.1038/nature08873.

Coronary arteries form by developmental reprogramming of venous cells.

Red-Horse K(1), Ueno H, Weissman IL, Krasnow MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford,
California 94305-5307, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):498-9.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2010 May;11(5):312.

Coronary artery disease is the leading cause of death worldwide. Determining the 
coronary artery developmental program could aid understanding of the disease and 
lead to new treatments, but many aspects of the process, including their
developmental origin, remain obscure. Here we show, using histological and clonal
analysis in mice and cardiac organ culture, that coronary vessels arise from
angiogenic sprouts of the sinus venosus-the vein that returns blood to the
embryonic heart. Sprouting venous endothelial cells dedifferentiate as they
migrate over and invade the myocardium. Invading cells differentiate into
arteries and capillaries; cells on the surface redifferentiate into veins. These 
results show that some differentiated venous cells retain developmental
plasticity, and indicate that position-specific cardiac signals trigger their
dedifferentiation and conversion into coronary arteries, capillaries and veins.
Understanding this new reprogramming process and identifying the endogenous
signals should suggest more natural ways of engineering coronary bypass grafts
and revascularizing the heart.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08873 
PMCID: PMC2924433
PMID: 20336138  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):543-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08883.

Nitrite-driven anaerobic methane oxidation by oxygenic bacteria.

Ettwig KF(1), Butler MK, Le Paslier D, Pelletier E, Mangenot S, Kuypers MM,
Schreiber F, Dutilh BE, Zedelius J, de Beer D, Gloerich J, Wessels HJ, van Alen
T, Luesken F, Wu ML, van de Pas-Schoonen KT, Op den Camp HJ, Janssen-Megens EM,
Francoijs KJ, Stunnenberg H, Weissenbach J, Jetten MS, Strous M.

Author information: 
(1)Radboud University Nijmegen, IWWR, Department of Microbiology, Heyendaalseweg 
135, 6525 AJ, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. k.ettwig@science.ru.nl

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):500-1.

Only three biological pathways are known to produce oxygen: photosynthesis,
chlorate respiration and the detoxification of reactive oxygen species. Here we
present evidence for a fourth pathway, possibly of considerable geochemical and
evolutionary importance. The pathway was discovered after metagenomic sequencing 
of an enrichment culture that couples anaerobic oxidation of methane with the
reduction of nitrite to dinitrogen. The complete genome of the dominant
bacterium, named 'Candidatus Methylomirabilis oxyfera', was assembled. This
apparently anaerobic, denitrifying bacterium encoded, transcribed and expressed
the well-established aerobic pathway for methane oxidation, whereas it lacked
known genes for dinitrogen production. Subsequent isotopic labelling indicated
that 'M. oxyfera' bypassed the denitrification intermediate nitrous oxide by the 
conversion of two nitric oxide molecules to dinitrogen and oxygen, which was used
to oxidize methane. These results extend our understanding of hydrocarbon
degradation under anoxic conditions and explain the biochemical mechanism of a
poorly understood freshwater methane sink. Because nitrogen oxides were already
present on early Earth, our finding opens up the possibility that oxygen was
available to microbial metabolism before the evolution of oxygenic
photosynthesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08883 
PMID: 20336137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):536-42. doi: 10.1038/nature08984.

Biodemography of human ageing.

Vaupel JW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Konrad-Zuse-Strasse 1, D-18057 
Rostock, Germany. jwv@demogr.mpg.de

Human senescence has been delayed by a decade. This finding, documented in 1994
and bolstered since, is a fundamental discovery about the biology of human
ageing, and one with profound implications for individuals, society and the
economy. Remarkably, the rate of deterioration with age seems to be constant
across individuals and over time: it seems that death is being delayed because
people are reaching old age in better health. Research by demographers,
epidemiologists and other biomedical researchers suggests that further progress
is likely to be made in advancing the frontier of survival - and healthy survival
- to even greater ages.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08984 
PMCID: PMC4010874
PMID: 20336136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):529-35. doi: 10.1038/nature08983.

Neural mechanisms of ageing and cognitive decline.

Bishop NA(1), Lu T, Yankner BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, 
USA.

During the past century, treatments for the diseases of youth and middle age have
helped raise life expectancy significantly. However, cognitive decline has
emerged as one of the greatest health threats of old age, with nearly 50% of
adults over the age of 85 afflicted with Alzheimer's disease. Developing
therapeutic interventions for such conditions demands a greater understanding of 
the processes underlying normal and pathological brain ageing. Recent advances in
the biology of ageing in model organisms, together with molecular and
systems-level studies of the brain, are beginning to shed light on these
mechanisms and their potential roles in cognitive decline.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08983 
PMCID: PMC2927852
PMID: 20336135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):520-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08982.

Linking functional decline of telomeres, mitochondria and stem cells during
ageing.

Sahin E(1), Depinho RA.

Author information: 
(1)Belfer Institute for Applied Cancer Science, Department of Medical Oncology,
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

The study of human genetic disorders and mutant mouse models has provided
evidence that genome maintenance mechanisms, DNA damage signalling and metabolic 
regulation cooperate to drive the ageing process. In particular, age-associated
telomere damage, diminution of telomere 'capping' function and associated p53
activation have emerged as prime instigators of a functional decline of tissue
stem cells and of mitochondrial dysfunction that adversely affect renewal and
bioenergetic support in diverse tissues. Constructing a model of how telomeres,
stem cells and mitochondria interact with key molecules governing genome
integrity, 'stemness' and metabolism provides a framework for how diverse factors
contribute to ageing and age-related disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08982 
PMCID: PMC3733214
PMID: 20336134  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):513-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08981.

Lessons on longevity from budding yeast.

Kaeberlein M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, 
USA. kaeber@u.washington.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1390.

The past decade has seen fundamental advances in our understanding of the ageing 
process and raised optimism that interventions to slow ageing may be on the
horizon. Studies of budding yeast have made immense contributions to this
progress. Yeast longevity factors have now been shown to modulate ageing in
invertebrate and mammalian models, and studies of yeast have resulted in some of 
the best candidates for anti-ageing drugs currently in development. The first
interventions to slow human ageing may spring from the humble yeast.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08981 
PMCID: PMC3696189
PMID: 20336133  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):504-12. doi: 10.1038/nature08980.

The genetics of ageing.

Kenyon CJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California, San
Francisco, San Francisco, California 94158, USA. cynthia.kenyon@ucsf.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 30;467(7315):622.

The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans ages and dies in a few weeks, but humans can 
live for 100 years or more. Assuming that the ancestor we share with nematodes
aged rapidly, this means that over evolutionary time mutations have increased
lifespan more than 2,000-fold. Which genes can extend lifespan? Can we augment
their activities and live even longer? After centuries of wistful poetry and wild
imagination, we are now getting answers, often unexpected ones, to these
fundamental questions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08980 
PMID: 20336132  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):597-600. doi: 10.1038/nature08848. Epub 2010 Mar
17.

Analysis of Drosophila TRPA1 reveals an ancient origin for human chemical
nociception.

Kang K(1), Pulver SR, Panzano VC, Chang EC, Griffith LC, Theobald DL, Garrity PA.

Author information: 
(1)National Center for Behavioral Genomics, Waltham, Massachusetts 02454, USA.

Chemical nociception, the detection of tissue-damaging chemicals, is important
for animal survival and causes human pain and inflammation, but its evolutionary 
origins are largely unknown. Reactive electrophiles are a class of noxious
compounds humans find pungent and irritating, such as allyl isothiocyanate (in
wasabi) and acrolein (in cigarette smoke). Diverse animals, from insects to
humans, find reactive electrophiles aversive, but whether this reflects
conservation of an ancient sensory modality has been unclear. Here we identify
the molecular basis of reactive electrophile detection in flies. We demonstrate
that Drosophila TRPA1 (Transient receptor potential A1), the Drosophila
melanogaster orthologue of the human irritant sensor, acts in gustatory
chemosensors to inhibit reactive electrophile ingestion. We show that fly and
mosquito TRPA1 orthologues are molecular sensors of electrophiles, using a
mechanism conserved with vertebrate TRPA1s. Phylogenetic analyses indicate that
invertebrate and vertebrate TRPA1s share a common ancestor that possessed
critical characteristics required for electrophile detection. These findings
support emergence of TRPA1-based electrophile detection in a common bilaterian
ancestor, with widespread conservation throughout vertebrate and invertebrate
evolution. Such conservation contrasts with the evolutionary divergence of
canonical olfactory and gustatory receptors and may relate to electrophile
toxicity. We propose that human pain perception relies on an ancient chemical
sensor conserved across approximately 500 million years of animal evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08848 
PMCID: PMC2845738
PMID: 20237474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):592-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08830. Epub 2010 Mar 14.

The dynamic genome of Hydra.

Chapman JA(1), Kirkness EF, Simakov O, Hampson SE, Mitros T, Weinmaier T, Rattei 
T, Balasubramanian PG, Borman J, Busam D, Disbennett K, Pfannkoch C, Sumin N,
Sutton GG, Viswanathan LD, Walenz B, Goodstein DM, Hellsten U, Kawashima T,
Prochnik SE, Putnam NH, Shu S, Blumberg B, Dana CE, Gee L, Kibler DF, Law L,
Lindgens D, Martinez DE, Peng J, Wigge PA, Bertulat B, Guder C, Nakamura Y, Ozbek
S, Watanabe H, Khalturin K, Hemmrich G, Franke A, Augustin R, Fraune S, Hayakawa 
E, Hayakawa S, Hirose M, Hwang JS, Ikeo K, Nishimiya-Fujisawa C, Ogura A,
Takahashi T, Steinmetz PR, Zhang X, Aufschnaiter R, Eder MK, Gorny AK,
Salvenmoser W, Heimberg AM, Wheeler BM, Peterson KJ, Böttger A, Tischler P, Wolf 
A, Gojobori T, Remington KA, Strausberg RL, Venter JC, Technau U, Hobmayer B,
Bosch TC, Holstein TW, Fujisawa T, Bode HR, David CN, Rokhsar DS, Steele RE.

Author information: 
(1)US Department of Energy Joint Genome Institute, Walnut Creek, California
94598, USA.

The freshwater cnidarian Hydra was first described in 1702 and has been the
object of study for 300 years. Experimental studies of Hydra between 1736 and
1744 culminated in the discovery of asexual reproduction of an animal by budding,
the first description of regeneration in an animal, and successful
transplantation of tissue between animals. Today, Hydra is an important model for
studies of axial patterning, stem cell biology and regeneration. Here we report
the genome of Hydra magnipapillata and compare it to the genomes of the anthozoan
Nematostella vectensis and other animals. The Hydra genome has been shaped by
bursts of transposable element expansion, horizontal gene transfer,
trans-splicing, and simplification of gene structure and gene content that
parallel simplification of the Hydra life cycle. We also report the sequence of
the genome of a novel bacterium stably associated with H. magnipapillata.
Comparisons of the Hydra genome to the genomes of other animals shed light on the
evolution of epithelia, contractile tissues, developmentally regulated
transcription factors, the Spemann-Mangold organizer, pluripotency genes and the 
neuromuscular junction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08830 
PMCID: PMC4479502
PMID: 20228792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):583-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08838. Epub 2010 Mar 10.

A computational model of teeth and the developmental origins of morphological
variation.

Salazar-Ciudad I(1), Jernvall J.

Author information: 
(1)Departament de Genètica i Microbiologia, Facultat de Biociències, Universitat 
Autònoma de Barcelona, 08193 Bellaterra, Barcelona, Spain. isaac.salazar@uab.cat

The relationship between the genotype and the phenotype, or the
genotype-phenotype map, is generally approached with the tools of multivariate
quantitative genetics and morphometrics. Whereas studies of development and
mathematical models of development may offer new insights into the
genotype-phenotype map, the challenge is to make them useful at the level of
microevolution. Here we report a computational model of mammalian tooth
development that combines parameters of genetic and cellular interactions to
produce a three-dimensional tooth from a simple tooth primordia. We
systematically tinkered with each of the model parameters to generate phenotypic 
variation and used geometric morphometric analyses to identify, or
developmentally ordinate, parameters best explaining population-level variation
of real teeth. To model the full range of developmentally possible morphologies, 
we used a population sample of ringed seals (Phoca hispida ladogensis). Seal
dentitions show a high degree of variation, typically linked to the lack of exact
occlusion. Our model suggests that despite the complexity of development and
teeth, there may be a simple basis for dental variation. Changes in single
parameters regulating signalling during cusp development may explain shape
variation among individuals, whereas a parameter regulating epithelial growth may
explain serial, tooth-to-tooth variation along the jaw. Our study provides a step
towards integrating the genotype, development and the phenotype.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08838 
PMID: 20220757  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):587-91. doi: 10.1038/nature08832. Epub 2010 Mar 10.

Whole-genome resequencing reveals loci under selection during chicken
domestication.

Rubin CJ(1), Zody MC, Eriksson J, Meadows JR, Sherwood E, Webster MT, Jiang L,
Ingman M, Sharpe T, Ka S, Hallböök F, Besnier F, Carlborg O, Bed'hom B,
Tixier-Boichard M, Jensen P, Siegel P, Lindblad-Toh K, Andersson L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Biochemistry and Microbiology, Uppsala University, Box
582, SE-75123 Uppsala, Sweden.

Comment in
    Genet Sel Evol. 2016 Aug 26;48(1):62.

Domestic animals are excellent models for genetic studies of phenotypic
evolution. They have evolved genetic adaptations to a new environment, the farm, 
and have been subjected to strong human-driven selection leading to remarkable
phenotypic changes in morphology, physiology and behaviour. Identifying the
genetic changes underlying these developments provides new insight into general
mechanisms by which genetic variation shapes phenotypic diversity. Here we
describe the use of massively parallel sequencing to identify selective sweeps of
favourable alleles and candidate mutations that have had a prominent role in the 
domestication of chickens (Gallus gallus domesticus) and their subsequent
specialization into broiler (meat-producing) and layer (egg-producing) chickens. 
We have generated 44.5-fold coverage of the chicken genome using pools of genomic
DNA representing eight different populations of domestic chickens as well as red 
jungle fowl (Gallus gallus), the major wild ancestor. We report more than
7,000,000 single nucleotide polymorphisms, almost 1,300 deletions and a number of
putative selective sweeps. One of the most striking selective sweeps found in all
domestic chickens occurred at the locus for thyroid stimulating hormone receptor 
(TSHR), which has a pivotal role in metabolic regulation and photoperiod control 
of reproduction in vertebrates. Several of the selective sweeps detected in
broilers overlapped genes associated with growth, appetite and metabolic
regulation. We found little evidence that selection for loss-of-function
mutations had a prominent role in chicken domestication, but we detected two
deletions in coding sequences that we suggest are functionally important. This
study has direct application to animal breeding and enhances the importance of
the domestic chicken as a model organism for biomedical research.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08832 
PMID: 20220755  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):624-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08820. Epub 2010 Mar 7.

Transcription-independent ARF regulation in oncogenic stress-mediated p53
responses.

Chen D(1), Shan J, Zhu WG, Qin J, Gu W.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Cancer Genetics, and Department of Pathology and Cell Biology
College of Physicians & Surgeons, Columbia University, 1130 St Nicholas Avenue,
New York, New York 10032, USA.

The tumour suppressor ARF is specifically required for p53 activation under
oncogenic stress. Recent studies showed that p53 activation mediated by ARF, but 
not that induced by DNA damage, acts as a major protection against tumorigenesis 
in vivo under certain biological settings, suggesting that the ARF-p53 axis has
more fundamental functions in tumour suppression than originally thought. Because
ARF is a very stable protein in most human cell lines, it has been widely assumed
that ARF induction is mediated mainly at the transcriptional level and that
activation of the ARF-p53 pathway by oncogenes is a much slower and largely
irreversible process by comparison with p53 activation after DNA damage. Here we 
report that ARF is very unstable in normal human cells but that its degradation
is inhibited in cancerous cells. Through biochemical purification, we identified 
a specific ubiquitin ligase for ARF and named it ULF. ULF interacts with ARF both
in vitro and in vivo and promotes the lysine-independent ubiquitylation and
degradation of ARF. ULF knockdown stabilizes ARF in normal human cells,
triggering ARF-dependent, p53-mediated growth arrest. Moreover, nucleophosmin
(NPM) and c-Myc, both of which are commonly overexpressed in cancer cells, are
capable of abrogating ULF-mediated ARF ubiquitylation through distinct
mechanisms, and thereby promote ARF stabilization in cancer cells. These findings
reveal the dynamic feature of the ARF-p53 pathway and suggest that
transcription-independent mechanisms are critically involved in ARF regulation
during responses to oncogenic stress.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08820 
PMCID: PMC3737736
PMID: 20208519  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):628-32. doi: 10.1038/nature08828. Epub 2010 Mar 7.

Control of female gamete formation by a small RNA pathway in Arabidopsis.

Olmedo-Monfil V(1), Durán-Figueroa N, Arteaga-Vázquez M, Demesa-Arévalo E, Autran
D, Grimanelli D, Slotkin RK, Martienssen RA, Vielle-Calzada JP.

Author information: 
(1)Grupo de Desarrollo Reproductivo y Apomixis, Laboratorio Nacional de Genómica 
para la Biodiversidad y Departamento de Ingeniería Genética de Plantas, Cinvestav
Irapuato CP36500 Guanajuato, México.

In the ovules of most sexual flowering plants female gametogenesis is initiated
from a single surviving gametic cell, the functional megaspore, formed after
meiosis of the somatically derived megaspore mother cell (MMC). Because some
mutants and certain sexual species exhibit more than one MMC, and many others are
able to form gametes without meiosis (by apomixis), it has been suggested that
somatic cells in the ovule are competent to respond to a local signal likely to
have an important function in determination. Here we show that the Arabidopsis
protein ARGONAUTE 9 (AGO9) controls female gamete formation by restricting the
specification of gametophyte precursors in a dosage-dependent,
non-cell-autonomous manner. Mutations in AGO9 lead to the differentiation of
multiple gametic cells that are able to initiate gametogenesis. The AGO9 protein 
is not expressed in the gamete lineage; instead, it is expressed in cytoplasmic
foci of somatic companion cells. Mutations in SUPPRESSOR OF GENE SILENCING 3 and 
RNA-DEPENDENT RNA POLYMERASE 6 exhibit an identical defect to ago9 mutants,
indicating that the movement of small RNA (sRNAs) silencing out of somatic
companion cells is necessary for controlling the specification of gametic cells. 
AGO9 preferentially interacts with 24-nucleotide sRNAs derived from transposable 
elements (TEs), and its activity is necessary to silence TEs in female gametes
and their accessory cells. Our results show that AGO9-dependent sRNA silencing is
crucial to specify cell fate in the Arabidopsis ovule, and that epigenetic
reprogramming in companion cells is necessary for sRNA-dependent silencing in
plant gametes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08828 
PMCID: PMC4613780
PMID: 20208518  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):610-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08802. Epub 2010 Mar 3.

Heteroplasmic mitochondrial DNA mutations in normal and tumour cells.

He Y(1), Wu J, Dressman DC, Iacobuzio-Donahue C, Markowitz SD, Velculescu VE,
Diaz LA Jr, Kinzler KW, Vogelstein B, Papadopoulos N.

Author information: 
(1)The Ludwig Center for Cancer Genetics and Therapeutics and The Howard Hughes
Medical Institute at The Johns Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center, Baltimore, Maryland 
21231, USA.

The presence of hundreds of copies of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) in each human
cell poses a challenge for the complete characterization of mtDNA genomes by
conventional sequencing technologies. Here we describe digital sequencing of
mtDNA genomes with the use of massively parallel sequencing-by-synthesis
approaches. Although the mtDNA of human cells is considered to be homogeneous, we
found widespread heterogeneity (heteroplasmy) in the mtDNA of normal human cells.
Moreover, the frequency of heteroplasmic variants varied considerably between
different tissues in the same individual. In addition to the variants identified 
in normal tissues, cancer cells harboured further homoplasmic and heteroplasmic
mutations that could also be detected in patient plasma. These studies provide
insights into the nature and variability of mtDNA sequences and have implications
for mitochondrial processes during embryogenesis, cancer biomarker development
and forensic analysis. In particular, they demonstrate that individual humans are
characterized by a complex mixture of related mitochondrial genotypes rather than
a single genotype.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08802 
PMCID: PMC3176451
PMID: 20200521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):619-23. doi: 10.1038/nature08816. Epub 2010 Mar 3.

Transcriptional control of preadipocyte determination by Zfp423.

Gupta RK(1), Arany Z, Seale P, Mepani RJ, Ye L, Conroe HM, Roby YA, Kulaga H,
Reed RR, Spiegelman BM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Biology and Division of Metabolism and Chronic Disease,
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

The worldwide epidemic of obesity has increased the urgency to develop a deeper
understanding of physiological systems related to energy balance and energy
storage, including the mechanisms controlling the development of fat cells
(adipocytes). The differentiation of committed preadipocytes to adipocytes is
controlled by PPARgamma and several other transcription factors, but the
molecular basis for preadipocyte determination is not understood. Using a new
method for the quantitative analysis of transcriptional components, we identified
the zinc-finger protein Zfp423 as a factor enriched in preadipose versus
non-preadipose fibroblasts. Ectopic expression of Zfp423 in non-adipogenic NIH
3T3 fibroblasts robustly activates expression of Pparg in undifferentiated cells 
and permits cells to undergo adipocyte differentiation under permissive
conditions. Short hairpin RNA (shRNA)-mediated reduction of Zfp423 expression in 
3T3-L1 cells blunts preadipocyte Pparg expression and diminishes the ability of
these cells to differentiate. Furthermore, both brown and white adipocyte
differentiation is markedly impaired in Zfp423-deficient mouse embryos. Zfp423
regulates Pparg expression, in part, through amplification of the BMP signalling 
pathway, an effect dependent on the SMAD-binding capacity of Zfp423. This study
identifies Zfp423 as a transcriptional regulator of preadipocyte determination.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08816 
PMCID: PMC2845731
PMID: 20200519  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):554-561. doi: 10.1038/nature08845.

Neurogenic radial glia in the outer subventricular zone of human neocortex.

Hansen DV(1), Lui JH, Parker PR, Kriegstein AR.

Author information: 
(1)Eli and Edythe Broad Center of Regeneration Medicine and Stem Cell Research,
San Francisco, California 94143, USA.

Neurons in the developing rodent cortex are generated from radial glial cells
that function as neural stem cells. These epithelial cells line the cerebral
ventricles and generate intermediate progenitor cells that migrate into the
subventricular zone (SVZ) and proliferate to increase neuronal number. The
developing human SVZ has a massively expanded outer region (OSVZ) thought to
contribute to cortical size and complexity. However, OSVZ progenitor cell types
and their contribution to neurogenesis are not well understood. Here we show that
large numbers of radial glia-like cells and intermediate progenitor cells
populate the human OSVZ. We find that OSVZ radial glia-like cells have a long
basal process but, surprisingly, are non-epithelial as they lack contact with the
ventricular surface. Using real-time imaging and clonal analysis, we demonstrate 
that these cells can undergo proliferative divisions and self-renewing asymmetric
divisions to generate neuronal progenitor cells that can proliferate further. We 
also show that inhibition of Notch signalling in OSVZ progenitor cells induces
their neuronal differentiation. The establishment of non-ventricular radial
glia-like cells may have been a critical evolutionary advance underlying
increased cortical size and complexity in the human brain.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08845 
PMID: 20154730  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):445-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08874.

Structural basis for receptor recognition of vitamin-B(12)-intrinsic factor
complexes.

Andersen CB(1), Madsen M, Storm T, Moestrup SK, Andersen GR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Aarhus University, 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark.

Cobalamin (Cbl, vitamin B(12)) is a bacterial organic compound and an essential
coenzyme in mammals, which take it up from the diet. This occurs by the combined 
action of the gastric intrinsic factor (IF) and the ileal endocytic cubam
receptor formed by the 460-kilodalton (kDa) protein cubilin and the 45-kDa
transmembrane protein amnionless. Loss of function of any of these proteins
ultimately leads to Cbl deficiency in man. Here we present the crystal structure 
of the complex between IF-Cbl and the cubilin IF-Cbl-binding-region (CUB(5-8))
determined at 3.3 A resolution. The structure provides insight into how several
CUB (for 'complement C1r/C1s, Uegf, Bmp1') domains collectively function as
modular ligand-binding regions, and how two distant CUB domains embrace the Cbl
molecule by binding the two IF domains in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. This
dual-point model provides a probable explanation of how Cbl indirectly induces
ligand-receptor coupling. Finally, the comparison of Ca(2+)-binding CUB domains
and the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor-type A modules suggests that the
electrostatic pairing of a basic ligand arginine/lysine residue with
Ca(2+)-coordinating acidic aspartates/glutamates is a common theme of
Ca(2+)-dependent ligand-receptor interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08874 
PMID: 20237569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):401-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08861.

Post-copulatory sexual selection and sexual conflict in the evolution of male
pregnancy.

Paczolt KA(1), Jones AG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, 3258 TAMU, Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas
77845, USA. kpaczolt@mail.bio.tamu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):E11; discussion E12.
    Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):364-5.

Male pregnancy in seahorses, pipefishes and sea dragons (family Syngnathidae)
represents a striking reproductive adaptation that has shaped the evolution of
behaviour and morphology in this group of fishes. In many syngnathid species,
males brood their offspring in a specialized pouch, which presumably evolved to
facilitate male parental care. However, an unexplored possibility is that brood
pouch evolution was partly shaped by parent-offspring or sexual conflict,
processes that would result in trade-offs between current and future pregnancies.
Here we report a controlled breeding experiment using the sexually dimorphic Gulf
pipefish, Syngnathus scovelli, to test for post-copulatory sexual selection
within broods and for trade-offs between successive male pregnancies as functions
of female attractiveness. Offspring survivorship within a pregnancy was affected 
by the size of a male's mate, the number of eggs transferred and the male's
sexual responsiveness. Significantly, we also found that embryo survivorship in a
current pregnancy was negatively related to survivorship in the prior pregnancy, 
clearly demonstrating fitness trade-offs between broods. Overall, our data
indicate that post-copulatory sexual selection and sexual conflict occur in Gulf 
pipefishes. The conflict seems to be mediated by a strategy of cryptic choice in 
which males increase rates of offspring abortion in pregnancies from unattractive
mothers to retain resources for future reproductive opportunities. Hence, the
male brood pouch of syngnathid fishes, which nurtures offspring, also seems to
have an important role as an arbiter of conflict between the sexes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08861 
PMID: 20237568  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):396-400. doi: 10.1038/nature08840.

Isotope fractionation in silicate melts by thermal diffusion.

Huang F(1), Chakraborty P, Lundstrom CC, Holmden C, Glessner JJ, Kieffer SW,
Lesher CE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology, University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 7;472(7341):E1; discussion E2-3.

The phenomenon of thermal diffusion (mass diffusion driven by a temperature
gradient, known as the Ludwig-Soret effect) has been investigated for over 150
years, but an understanding of its underlying physical basis remains elusive. A
significant hurdle in studying thermal diffusion has been the difficulty of
characterizing it. Extensive experiments over the past century have established
that the Soret coefficient, S(T) (a single parameter that describes the
steady-state result of thermal diffusion), is highly sensitive to many factors.
This sensitivity makes it very difficult to obtain a robust characterization of
thermal diffusion, even for a single material. Here we show that for thermal
diffusion experiments that span a wide range in composition and temperature, the 
difference in S(T) between isotopes of diffusing elements that are network
modifiers (iron, calcium and magnesium) is independent of the composition and
temperature. On the basis of this finding, we propose an additive decomposition
for the functional form of S(T) and argue that a theoretical approach based on
local thermodynamic equilibrium holds promise for describing thermal diffusion in
silicate melts and other complex solutions. Our results lead to a simple and
robust framework for characterizing isotope fractionation by thermal diffusion in
natural and synthetic systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08840 
PMID: 20237567 


718. Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):392-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08907.

Shell-isolated nanoparticle-enhanced Raman spectroscopy.

Li JF(1), Huang YF, Ding Y, Yang ZL, Li SB, Zhou XS, Fan FR, Zhang W, Zhou ZY, Wu
DY, Ren B, Wang ZL, Tian ZQ.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Physical Chemistry of Solid Surfaces and College of
Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Xiamen University, Xiamen 361005, China.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):357.

Surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) is a powerful spectroscopy technique
that can provide non-destructive and ultra-sensitive characterization down to
single molecular level, comparable to single-molecule fluorescence spectroscopy. 
However, generally substrates based on metals such as Ag, Au and Cu, either with 
roughened surfaces or in the form of nanoparticles, are required to realise a
substantial SERS effect, and this has severely limited the breadth of practical
applications of SERS. A number of approaches have extended the technique to
non-traditional substrates, most notably tip-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (TERS)
where the probed substance (molecule or material surface) can be on a generic
substrate and where a nanoscale gold tip above the substrate acts as the Raman
signal amplifier. The drawback is that the total Raman scattering signal from the
tip area is rather weak, thus limiting TERS studies to molecules with large Raman
cross-sections. Here, we report an approach, which we name shell-isolated
nanoparticle-enhanced Raman spectroscopy, in which the Raman signal amplification
is provided by gold nanoparticles with an ultrathin silica or alumina shell. A
monolayer of such nanoparticles is spread as 'smart dust' over the surface that
is to be probed. The ultrathin coating keeps the nanoparticles from
agglomerating, separates them from direct contact with the probed material and
allows the nanoparticles to conform to different contours of substrates.
High-quality Raman spectra were obtained on various molecules adsorbed at Pt and 
Au single-crystal surfaces and from Si surfaces with hydrogen monolayers. These
measurements and our studies on yeast cells and citrus fruits with pesticide
residues illustrate that our method significantly expands the flexibility of SERS
for useful applications in the materials and life sciences, as well as for the
inspection of food safety, drugs, explosives and environment pollutants.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08907 
PMID: 20237566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):388-91. doi: 10.1038/nature08865.

A trapped single ion inside a Bose-Einstein condensate.

Zipkes C(1), Palzer S, Sias C, Köhl M.

Author information: 
(1)Cavendish Laboratory, University of Cambridge, J. J. Thomson Avenue, Cambridge
CB3 0HE, UK.

Improved control of the motional and internal quantum states of ultracold neutral
atoms and ions has opened intriguing possibilities for quantum simulation and
quantum computation. Many-body effects have been explored with hundreds of
thousands of quantum-degenerate neutral atoms, and coherent light-matter
interfaces have been built. Systems of single or a few trapped ions have been
used to demonstrate universal quantum computing algorithms and to search for
variations of fundamental constants in precision atomic clocks. Until now, atomic
quantum gases and single trapped ions have been treated separately in
experiments. Here we investigate whether they can be advantageously combined into
one hybrid system, by exploring the immersion of a single trapped ion into a
Bose-Einstein condensate of neutral atoms. We demonstrate independent control
over the two components of the hybrid system, study the fundamental interaction
processes and observe sympathetic cooling of the single ion by the condensate.
Our experiment calls for further research into the possibility of using this
technique for the continuous cooling of quantum computers. We also anticipate
that it will lead to explorations of entanglement in hybrid quantum systems and
to fundamental studies of the decoherence of a single, locally controlled
impurity particle coupled to a quantum environment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08865 
PMID: 20237565 


720. Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):384-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08856.

A transiting giant planet with a temperature between 250 K and 430 K.

Deeg HJ(1), Moutou C, Erikson A, Csizmadia S, Tingley B, Barge P, Bruntt H, Havel
M, Aigrain S, Almenara JM, Alonso R, Auvergne M, Baglin A, Barbieri M, Benz W,
Bonomo AS, Bordé P, Bouchy F, Cabrera J, Carone L, Carpano S, Ciardi D, Deleuil
M, Dvorak R, Ferraz-Mello S, Fridlund M, Gandolfi D, Gazzano JC, Gillon M,
Gondoin P, Guenther E, Guillot T, den Hartog R, Hatzes A, Hidas M, Hébrard G,
Jorda L, Kabath P, Lammer H, Léger A, Lister T, Llebaria A, Lovis C, Mayor M,
Mazeh T, Ollivier M, Pätzold M, Pepe F, Pont F, Queloz D, Rabus M, Rauer H, Rouan
D, Samuel B, Schneider J, Shporer A, Stecklum B, Street R, Udry S, Weingrill J,
Wuchterl G.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Astrofísica de Canarias, C. Via Lactea S/N, E-38205 La Laguna,
Tenerife, Spain. hdeeg@iac.es

Of the over 400 known exoplanets, there are about 70 planets that transit their
central star, a situation that permits the derivation of their basic parameters
and facilitates investigations of their atmospheres. Some short-period planets,
including the first terrestrial exoplanet (CoRoT-7b), have been discovered using 
a space mission designed to find smaller and more distant planets than can be
seen from the ground. Here we report transit observations of CoRoT-9b, which
orbits with a period of 95.274 days on a low eccentricity of 0.11 +/- 0.04 around
a solar-like star. Its periastron distance of 0.36 astronomical units is by far
the largest of all transiting planets, yielding a 'temperate' photospheric
temperature estimated to be between 250 and 430 K. Unlike previously known
transiting planets, the present size of CoRoT-9b should not have been affected by
tidal heat dissipation processes. Indeed, the planet is found to be well
described by standard evolution models with an inferred interior composition
consistent with that of Jupiter and Saturn.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08856 
PMID: 20237564 


721. Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):380-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08877.

Dust-free quasars in the early Universe.

Jiang L(1), Fan X, Brandt WN, Carilli CL, Egami E, Hines DC, Kurk JD, Richards
GT, Shen Y, Strauss MA, Vestergaard M, Walter F.

Author information: 
(1)Steward Observatory, University of Arizona, 933 North Cherry Avenue, Tucson,
Arizona 85721, USA. ljiang@email.arizona.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):359-60.

The most distant quasars known, at redshifts z approximately 6, generally have
properties indistinguishable from those of lower-redshift quasars in the
rest-frame ultraviolet/optical and X-ray bands. This puzzling result suggests
that these distant quasars are evolved objects even though the Universe was only 
seven per cent of its current age at these redshifts. Recently one z
approximately 6 quasar was shown not to have any detectable emission from hot
dust, but it was unclear whether that indicated different hot-dust properties at 
high redshift or if it is simply an outlier. Here we report the discovery of a
second quasar without hot-dust emission in a sample of 21 z approximately 6
quasars. Such apparently hot-dust-free quasars have no counterparts at low
redshift. Moreover, we demonstrate that the hot-dust abundance in the 21 quasars 
builds up in tandem with the growth of the central black hole, whereas at low
redshift it is almost independent of the black hole mass. Thus z approximately 6 
quasars are indeed at an early evolutionary stage, with rapid mass accretion and 
dust formation. The two hot-dust-free quasars are likely to be first-generation
quasars born in dust-free environments and are too young to have formed a
detectable amount of hot dust around them.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08877 
PMID: 20237563 


722. Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):374-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08815.

Skp2 targeting suppresses tumorigenesis by Arf-p53-independent cellular
senescence.

Lin HK(1), Chen Z, Wang G, Nardella C, Lee SW, Chan CH, Yang WL, Wang J, Egia A, 
Nakayama KI, Cordon-Cardo C, Teruya-Feldstein J, Pandolfi PP.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Biology and Genetics Program, Sloan-Kettering Institute, Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, New York 10021, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 15;466(7304):398. Chan, Chan-Hsin [corrected to Chan,
Chia-Hsin].

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):363-4.

Cellular senescence has been recently shown to have an important role in opposing
tumour initiation and promotion. Senescence induced by oncogenes or by loss of
tumour suppressor genes is thought to critically depend on induction of the
p19(Arf)-p53 pathway. The Skp2 E3-ubiquitin ligase can act as a proto-oncogene
and its aberrant overexpression is frequently observed in human cancers. Here we 
show that although Skp2 inactivation on its own does not induce cellular
senescence, aberrant proto-oncogenic signals as well as inactivation of tumour
suppressor genes do trigger a potent, tumour-suppressive senescence response in
mice and cells devoid of Skp2. Notably, Skp2 inactivation and
oncogenic-stress-driven senescence neither elicit activation of the p19(Arf)-p53 
pathway nor DNA damage, but instead depend on Atf4, p27 and p21. We further
demonstrate that genetic Skp2 inactivation evokes cellular senescence even in
oncogenic conditions in which the p19(Arf)-p53 response is impaired, whereas a
Skp2-SCF complex inhibitor can trigger cellular senescence in p53/Pten-deficient 
cells and tumour regression in preclinical studies. Our findings therefore
provide proof-of-principle evidence that pharmacological inhibition of Skp2 may
represent a general approach for cancer prevention and therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08815 
PMCID: PMC2928066
PMID: 20237562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):367-73. doi: 10.1038/nature08850.

Comparative genomics reveals mobile pathogenicity chromosomes in Fusarium.

Ma LJ(1), van der Does HC, Borkovich KA, Coleman JJ, Daboussi MJ, Di Pietro A,
Dufresne M, Freitag M, Grabherr M, Henrissat B, Houterman PM, Kang S, Shim WB,
Woloshuk C, Xie X, Xu JR, Antoniw J, Baker SE, Bluhm BH, Breakspear A, Brown DW, 
Butchko RA, Chapman S, Coulson R, Coutinho PM, Danchin EG, Diener A, Gale LR,
Gardiner DM, Goff S, Hammond-Kosack KE, Hilburn K, Hua-Van A, Jonkers W, Kazan K,
Kodira CD, Koehrsen M, Kumar L, Lee YH, Li L, Manners JM, Miranda-Saavedra D,
Mukherjee M, Park G, Park J, Park SY, Proctor RH, Regev A, Ruiz-Roldan MC, Sain
D, Sakthikumar S, Sykes S, Schwartz DC, Turgeon BG, Wapinski I, Yoder O, Young S,
Zeng Q, Zhou S, Galagan J, Cuomo CA, Kistler HC, Rep M.

Author information: 
(1)The Broad Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02141, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2010 May;8(5):311.

Fusarium species are among the most important phytopathogenic and toxigenic
fungi. To understand the molecular underpinnings of pathogenicity in the genus
Fusarium, we compared the genomes of three phenotypically diverse species:
Fusarium graminearum, Fusarium verticillioides and Fusarium oxysporum f. sp.
lycopersici. Our analysis revealed lineage-specific (LS) genomic regions in F.
oxysporum that include four entire chromosomes and account for more than
one-quarter of the genome. LS regions are rich in transposons and genes with
distinct evolutionary profiles but related to pathogenicity, indicative of
horizontal acquisition. Experimentally, we demonstrate the transfer of two LS
chromosomes between strains of F. oxysporum, converting a non-pathogenic strain
into a pathogen. Transfer of LS chromosomes between otherwise genetically
isolated strains explains the polyphyletic origin of host specificity and the
emergence of new pathogenic lineages in F. oxysporum. These findings put the
evolution of fungal pathogenicity into a new perspective.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08850 
PMCID: PMC3048781
PMID: 20237561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):423-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08843. Epub 2010 Feb 28.

Control of Arabidopsis apical-basal embryo polarity by antagonistic transcription
factors.

Smith ZR(1), Long JA.

Author information: 
(1)Plant Biology Laboratory, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies,
University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Plants, similarly to animals, form polarized axes during embryogenesis on which
cell differentiation and organ patterning programs are orchestrated. During
Arabidopsis embryogenesis, establishment of the shoot and root stem cell
populations occurs at opposite ends of an apical-basal axis. Recent work has
identified the PLETHORA (PLT) genes as master regulators of basal/root fate,
whereas the master regulators of apical/shoot fate have remained elusive. Here we
show that the PLT1 and PLT2 genes are direct targets of the transcriptional
co-repressor TOPLESS (TPL) and that PLT1/2 are necessary for the homeotic
conversion of shoots to roots in tpl-1 mutants. Using tpl-1 as a genetic tool, we
identify the CLASS III HOMEODOMAIN-LEUCINE ZIPPER (HD-ZIP III) transcription
factors as master regulators of embryonic apical fate, and show they are
sufficient to drive the conversion of the embryonic root pole into a second shoot
pole. Furthermore, genetic and misexpression studies show an antagonistic
relationship between the PLT and HD-ZIP III genes in specifying the root and
shoot poles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08843 
PMCID: PMC2841697
PMID: 20190735  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):413-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08826. Epub 2010 Feb 24.

An intrinsic vasopressin system in the olfactory bulb is involved in social
recognition.

Tobin VA(1), Hashimoto H, Wacker DW, Takayanagi Y, Langnaese K, Caquineau C,
Noack J, Landgraf R, Onaka T, Leng G, Meddle SL, Engelmann M, Ludwig M.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Integrative Physiology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH8 9XD,
UK.

Many peptides, when released as chemical messengers within the brain, have
powerful influences on complex behaviours. Most strikingly, vasopressin and
oxytocin, once thought of as circulating hormones whose actions were confined to 
peripheral organs, are now known to be released in the brain, where they have
fundamentally important roles in social behaviours. In humans, disruptions of
these peptide systems have been linked to several neurobehavioural disorders,
including Prader-Willi syndrome, affective disorders and obsessive-compulsive
disorder, and polymorphisms of V1a vasopressin receptor have been linked to
autism. Here we report that the rat olfactory bulb contains a large population of
interneurons which express vasopressin, that blocking the actions of vasopressin 
in the olfactory bulb impairs the social recognition abilities of rats and that
vasopressin agonists and antagonists can modulate the processing of information
by olfactory bulb neurons. The findings indicate that social information is
processed in part by a vasopressin system intrinsic to the olfactory system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08826 
PMCID: PMC2842245
PMID: 20182426  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):427-30. doi: 10.1038/nature08902.

RAF inhibitors transactivate RAF dimers and ERK signalling in cells with
wild-type BRAF.

Poulikakos PI(1), Zhang C, Bollag G, Shokat KM, Rosen N.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Molecular Pharmacology and Chemistry and Department of Medicine,
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):358-9.

Tumours with mutant BRAF are dependent on the RAF-MEK-ERK signalling pathway for 
their growth. We found that ATP-competitive RAF inhibitors inhibit ERK signalling
in cells with mutant BRAF, but unexpectedly enhance signalling in cells with
wild-type BRAF. Here we demonstrate the mechanistic basis for these findings. We 
used chemical genetic methods to show that drug-mediated transactivation of RAF
dimers is responsible for paradoxical activation of the enzyme by inhibitors.
Induction of ERK signalling requires direct binding of the drug to the
ATP-binding site of one kinase of the dimer and is dependent on RAS activity.
Drug binding to one member of RAF homodimers (CRAF-CRAF) or heterodimers
(CRAF-BRAF) inhibits one protomer, but results in transactivation of the
drug-free protomer. In BRAF(V600E) tumours, RAS is not activated, thus
transactivation is minimal and ERK signalling is inhibited in cells exposed to
RAF inhibitors. These results indicate that RAF inhibitors will be effective in
tumours in which BRAF is mutated. Furthermore, because RAF inhibitors do not
inhibit ERK signalling in other cells, the model predicts that they would have a 
higher therapeutic index and greater antitumour activity than mitogen-activated
protein kinase (MEK) inhibitors, but could also cause toxicity due to MEK/ERK
activation. These predictions have been borne out in a recent clinical trial of
the RAF inhibitor PLX4032 (refs 4, 5). The model indicates that promotion of RAF 
dimerization by elevation of wild-type RAF expression or RAS activity could lead 
to drug resistance in mutant BRAF tumours. In agreement with this prediction, RAF
inhibitors do not inhibit ERK signalling in cells that coexpress BRAF(V600E) and 
mutant RAS.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08902 
PMCID: PMC3178447
PMID: 20179705  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):436-40. doi: 10.1038/nature08803. Epub 2010 Feb 21.

Mad2-induced chromosome instability leads to lung tumour relapse after oncogene
withdrawal.

Sotillo R(1), Schvartzman JM, Socci ND, Benezra R.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Biology and Genetics Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center,
New York, New York 10065, USA.

Inhibition of an initiating oncogene often leads to extensive tumour cell death, 
a phenomenon known as oncogene addiction. This has led to the search for
compounds that specifically target and inhibit oncogenes as anticancer agents.
However, there has been no systematic exploration of whether chromosomal
instability generated as a result of deregulation of the mitotic checkpoint
pathway, a frequent characteristic of solid tumours, has any effect on oncogene
addiction. Here we show that induction of chromosome instability by
overexpression of the mitotic checkpoint gene Mad2 in mice does not affect the
regression of Kras-driven lung tumours when Kras is inhibited. However, tumours
that experience transient Mad2 overexpression and consequent chromosome
instability recur at markedly elevated rates. The recurrent tumours are highly
aneuploid and have varied activation of pro-proliferative pathways. Thus, early
chromosomal instability may be responsible for tumour relapse after seemingly
effective anticancer treatments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08803 
PMCID: PMC2841716
PMID: 20173739  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):409-12. doi: 10.1038/nature08801. Epub 2010 Feb 21.

Targeted deletion of the 9p21 non-coding coronary artery disease risk interval in
mice.

Visel A(1), Zhu Y, May D, Afzal V, Gong E, Attanasio C, Blow MJ, Cohen JC, Rubin 
EM, Pennacchio LA.

Author information: 
(1)Genomics Division, MS 84-171, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA.

Sequence polymorphisms in a 58-kilobase (kb) interval on chromosome 9p21 confer a
markedly increased risk of coronary artery disease (CAD), the leading cause of
death worldwide. The variants have a substantial effect on the epidemiology of
CAD and other life-threatening vascular conditions because nearly one-quarter of 
Caucasians are homozygous for risk alleles. However, the risk interval is devoid 
of protein-coding genes and the mechanism linking the region to CAD risk has
remained enigmatic. Here we show that deletion of the orthologous 70-kb
non-coding interval on mouse chromosome 4 affects cardiac expression of
neighbouring genes, as well as proliferation properties of vascular cells.
Chr4(Delta70kb/Delta70kb) mice are viable, but show increased mortality both
during development and as adults. Cardiac expression of two genes near the
non-coding interval, Cdkn2a and Cdkn2b, is severely reduced in
chr4(Delta70kb/Delta70kb) mice, indicating that distant-acting gene regulatory
functions are located in the non-coding CAD risk interval. Allele-specific
expression of Cdkn2b transcripts in heterozygous mice showed that the deletion
affects expression through a cis-acting mechanism. Primary cultures of
chr4(Delta70kb/Delta70kb) aortic smooth muscle cells exhibited excessive
proliferation and diminished senescence, a cellular phenotype consistent with
accelerated CAD pathogenesis. Taken together, our results provide direct evidence
that the CAD risk interval has a pivotal role in regulation of cardiac Cdkn2a/b
expression, and suggest that this region affects CAD progression by altering the 
dynamics of vascular cell proliferation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08801 
PMCID: PMC2938076
PMID: 20173736  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):405-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08825. Epub 2010 Feb 21.

ITPA gene variants protect against anaemia in patients treated for chronic
hepatitis C.

Fellay J(1), Thompson AJ, Ge D, Gumbs CE, Urban TJ, Shianna KV, Little LD, Qiu P,
Bertelsen AH, Watson M, Warner A, Muir AJ, Brass C, Albrecht J, Sulkowski M,
McHutchison JG, Goldstein DB.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Genome Sciences & Policy, Center for Human Genome Variation,
Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27708, USA.

Comment in
    Hepatology. 2010 Jun;51(6):2223-5.
    J Hepatol. 2010 Nov;53(5):971-3.

Chronic infection with the hepatitis C virus (HCV) affects 170 million people
worldwide and is an important cause of liver-related morbidity and mortality. The
standard of care therapy combines pegylated interferon (pegIFN) alpha and
ribavirin (RBV), and is associated with a range of treatment-limiting adverse
effects. One of the most important of these is RBV-induced haemolytic anaemia,
which affects most patients and is severe enough to require dose modification in 
up to 15% of patients. Here we show that genetic variants leading to inosine
triphosphatase deficiency, a condition not thought to be clinically important,
protect against haemolytic anaemia in hepatitis-C-infected patients receiving
RBV.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08825 
PMID: 20173735  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):418-22. doi: 10.1038/nature08794. Epub 2010 Feb 17.

Differential innate immune signalling via Ca(2+) sensor protein kinases.

Boudsocq M(1), Willmann MR, McCormack M, Lee H, Shan L, He P, Bush J, Cheng SH,
Sheen J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Center for Computational and
Integrative Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Innate immunity represents the first line of inducible defence against microbial 
infection in plants and animals. In both kingdoms, recognition of pathogen- or
microbe-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs or MAMPs, respectively), such as
flagellin, initiates convergent signalling pathways involving mitogen-activated
protein kinase (MAPK) cascades and global transcriptional changes to boost
immunity. Although Ca(2+) has long been recognized as an essential and conserved 
primary mediator in plant defence responses, how Ca(2+) signals are sensed and
relayed into early MAMP signalling is unknown. Using a functional genomic screen 
and genome-wide gene expression profiling, here we show that four
calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) are Ca(2+)-sensor protein kinases
critical for transcriptional reprogramming in plant innate immune signalling.
Unexpectedly, CDPKs and MAPK cascades act differentially in four MAMP-mediated
regulatory programs to control early genes involved in the synthesis of defence
peptides and metabolites, cell wall modifications and redox signalling.
Transcriptome profile comparison suggests that CDPKs are the convergence point of
signalling triggered by most MAMPs. Double, triple and quadruple cpk mutant
plants display progressively diminished oxidative burst and gene activation
induced by the 22-amino-acid peptide flg22, as well as compromised pathogen
defence. In contrast to negative roles of calmodulin and a calmodulin-activated
transcription factor in plant defence, the present study reveals Ca(2+)
signalling complexity and demonstrates key positive roles of specific CDPKs in
initial MAMP signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08794 
PMCID: PMC2841715
PMID: 20164835  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):441-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08817. Epub 2010 Feb 14.

Encoding multiple unnatural amino acids via evolution of a quadruplet-decoding
ribosome.

Neumann H(1), Wang K, Davis L, Garcia-Alai M, Chin JW.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Hills Road,
Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK.

Comment in
    Chem Biol. 2010 Apr 23;17(4):320-1.
    Nat Methods. 2010 May;7(5):343.

The in vivo, genetically programmed incorporation of designer amino acids allows 
the properties of proteins to be tailored with molecular precision. The
Methanococcus jannaschii tyrosyl-transfer-RNA synthetase-tRNA(CUA)
(MjTyrRS-tRNA(CUA)) and the Methanosarcina barkeri pyrrolysyl-tRNA
synthetase-tRNA(CUA) (MbPylRS-tRNA(CUA)) orthogonal pairs have been evolved to
incorporate a range of unnatural amino acids in response to the amber codon in
Escherichia coli. However, the potential of synthetic genetic code expansion is
generally limited to the low efficiency incorporation of a single type of
unnatural amino acid at a time, because every triplet codon in the universal
genetic code is used in encoding the synthesis of the proteome. To encode
efficiently many distinct unnatural amino acids into proteins we require blank
codons and mutually orthogonal aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase-tRNA pairs that
recognize unnatural amino acids and decode the new codons. Here we synthetically 
evolve an orthogonal ribosome (ribo-Q1) that efficiently decodes a series of
quadruplet codons and the amber codon, providing several blank codons on an
orthogonal messenger RNA, which it specifically translates. By creating mutually 
orthogonal aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase-tRNA pairs and combining them with ribo-Q1
we direct the incorporation of distinct unnatural amino acids in response to two 
of the new blank codons on the orthogonal mRNA. Using this code, we genetically
direct the formation of a specific, redox-insensitive, nanoscale protein
cross-link by the bio-orthogonal cycloaddition of encoded azide- and
alkyne-containing amino acids. Because the synthetase-tRNA pairs used have been
evolved to incorporate numerous unnatural amino acids, it will be possible to
encode more than 200 unnatural amino acid combinations using this approach. As
ribo-Q1 independently decodes a series of quadruplet codons, this work provides
foundational technologies for the encoded synthesis and synthetic evolution of
unnatural polymers in cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08817 
PMID: 20154731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):431-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08833. Epub 2010 Feb 3.

RAF inhibitors prime wild-type RAF to activate the MAPK pathway and enhance
growth.

Hatzivassiliou G(1), Song K, Yen I, Brandhuber BJ, Anderson DJ, Alvarado R,
Ludlam MJ, Stokoe D, Gloor SL, Vigers G, Morales T, Aliagas I, Liu B, Sideris S, 
Hoeflich KP, Jaiswal BS, Seshagiri S, Koeppen H, Belvin M, Friedman LS, Malek S.

Author information: 
(1)Genentech, South San Francisco, California 94080, USA.
hatzivassiliou.georgia@gene.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Mar 18;464(7287):358-9.

Activating mutations in KRAS and BRAF are found in more than 30% of all human
tumours and 40% of melanoma, respectively, thus targeting this pathway could have
broad therapeutic effects. Small molecule ATP-competitive RAF kinase inhibitors
have potent antitumour effects on mutant BRAF(V600E) tumours but, in contrast to 
mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) inhibitors, are not potent against 
RAS mutant tumour models, despite RAF functioning as a key effector downstream of
RAS and upstream of MEK. Here we show that ATP-competitive RAF inhibitors have
two opposing mechanisms of action depending on the cellular context. In
BRAF(V600E) tumours, RAF inhibitors effectively block the mitogen-activated
protein kinase (MAPK) signalling pathway and decrease tumour growth. Notably, in 
KRAS mutant and RAS/RAF wild-type tumours, RAF inhibitors activate the
RAF-MEK-ERK pathway in a RAS-dependent manner, thus enhancing tumour growth in
some xenograft models. Inhibitor binding activates wild-type RAF isoforms by
inducing dimerization, membrane localization and interaction with RAS-GTP. These 
events occur independently of kinase inhibition and are, instead, linked to
direct conformational effects of inhibitors on the RAF kinase domain. On the
basis of these findings, we demonstrate that ATP-competitive kinase inhibitors
can have opposing functions as inhibitors or activators of signalling pathways,
depending on the cellular context. Furthermore, this work provides new insights
into the therapeutic use of ATP-competitive RAF inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08833 
PMID: 20130576  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):302-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08782.

B-cell-derived lymphotoxin promotes castration-resistant prostate cancer.

Ammirante M(1), Luo JL, Grivennikov S, Nedospasov S, Karin M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Gene Regulation and Signal Transduction, Department of
Pharmacology and Cancer Center, School of Medicine, University of California, San
Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California 92093-0723, USA.

Prostate cancer (CaP) progresses from prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia through
locally invasive adenocarcinoma to castration-resistant metastatic carcinoma.
Although radical prostatectomy, radiation and androgen ablation are effective
therapies for androgen-dependent CaP, metastatic castration-resistant CaP is a
major complication with high mortality. Androgens stimulate growth and survival
of prostate epithelium and early CaP. Although most patients initially respond to
androgen ablation, many develop castration-resistant CaP within 12-18 months.
Despite extensive studies, the mechanisms underlying the emergence of
castration-resistant CaP remain poorly understood and their elucidation is
critical for developing improved therapies. Curiously, castration-resistant CaP
remains androgen-receptor dependent, and potent androgen-receptor antagonists
induce tumour regression in castrated mice. The role of inflammation in
castration-resistant CaP has not been addressed, although it was reported that
intrinsic NF-kappaB activation supports its growth. Inflammation is a localized
protective reaction to injury or infection, but it also has a pathogenic role in 
many diseases, including cancer. Whereas acute inflammation is critical for host 
defence, chronic inflammation contributes to tumorigenesis and metastatic
progression. The inflammation-responsive IkappaB kinase (IKK)-beta and its target
NF-kappaB have important tumour-promoting functions within malignant cells and
inflammatory cells. The latter, including macrophages and lymphocytes, are
important elements of the tumour microenvironment, but the mechanisms underlying 
their recruitment remain obscure, although they are thought to depend on
chemokine and cytokine production. We found that CaP progression is associated
with inflammatory infiltration and activation of IKK-alpha, which stimulates
metastasis by an NF-kappaB-independent, cell autonomous mechanism. Here we show
that androgen ablation causes infiltration of regressing androgen-dependent
tumours with leukocytes, including B cells, in which IKK-beta activation results 
in production of cytokines that activate IKK-alpha and STAT3 in CaP cells to
enhance hormone-free survival.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08782 
PMCID: PMC2866639
PMID: 20220849  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):287-91. doi: 10.1038/nature08799.

Systematic genetic analysis of muscle morphogenesis and function in Drosophila.

Schnorrer F(1), Schönbauer C, Langer CC, Dietzl G, Novatchkova M, Schernhuber K, 
Fellner M, Azaryan A, Radolf M, Stark A, Keleman K, Dickson BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institute of Biochemistry, Am Klopferspitz 18, 82152 Martinsried,
Germany. schnorrer@biochem.mpg.de

Systematic genetic approaches have provided deep insight into the molecular and
cellular mechanisms that operate in simple unicellular organisms. For
multicellular organisms, however, the pleiotropy of gene function has largely
restricted such approaches to the study of early embryogenesis. With the
availability of genome-wide transgenic RNA interference (RNAi) libraries in
Drosophila, it is now possible to perform a systematic genetic dissection of any 
cell or tissue type at any stage of the lifespan. Here we apply these methods to 
define the genetic basis for formation and function of the Drosophila muscle. We 
identify a role in muscle for 2,785 genes, many of which we assign to specific
functions in the organization of muscles, myofibrils or sarcomeres. Many of these
genes are phylogenetically conserved, including genes implicated in mammalian
sarcomere organization and human muscle diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08799 
PMID: 20220848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):271-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08905.

A large atomic chlorine source inferred from mid-continental reactive nitrogen
chemistry.

Thornton JA(1), Kercher JP, Riedel TP, Wagner NL, Cozic J, Holloway JS, Dubé WP, 
Wolfe GM, Quinn PK, Middlebrook AM, Alexander B, Brown SS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Atmospheric Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA. thornton@atmos.washington.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):168-9.

Halogen atoms and oxides are highly reactive and can profoundly affect
atmospheric composition. Chlorine atoms can decrease the lifetimes of gaseous
elemental mercury and hydrocarbons such as the greenhouse gas methane. Chlorine
atoms also influence cycles that catalytically destroy or produce tropospheric
ozone, a greenhouse gas potentially toxic to plant and animal life. Conversion of
inorganic chloride into gaseous chlorine atom precursors within the troposphere
is generally considered a coastal or marine air phenomenon. Here we report
mid-continental observations of the chlorine atom precursor nitryl chloride at a 
distance of 1,400 km from the nearest coastline. We observe persistent and
significant nitryl chloride production relative to the consumption of its
nitrogen oxide precursors. Comparison of these findings to model predictions
based on aerosol and precipitation composition data from long-term monitoring
networks suggests nitryl chloride production in the contiguous USA alone is at a 
level similar to previous global estimates for coastal and marine regions. We
also suggest that a significant fraction of tropospheric chlorine atoms may arise
directly from anthropogenic pollutants.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08905 
PMID: 20220847  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):267-70. doi: 10.1038/nature08863.

Tunable polymer multi-shape memory effect.

Xie T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Mail Code: 480-106-710, Chemical Sciences and Materials Systems Laboratory,
General Motors Research and Development Center, 30500 Mound Road, Warren,
Michigan 48090-9055, USA. tao.xie@gm.com

Shape memory polymers are materials that can memorize temporary shapes and revert
to their permanent shape upon exposure to an external stimulus such as heat,
light, moisture or magnetic field. Such properties have enabled a variety of
applications including deployable space structures, biomedical devices, adaptive 
optical devices, smart dry adhesives and fasteners. The ultimate potential for a 
shape memory polymer, however, is limited by the number of temporary shapes it
can memorize in each shape memory cycle and the ability to tune the shape memory 
transition temperature(s) for the targeted applications. Currently known shape
memory polymers are capable of memorizing one or two temporary shapes,
corresponding to dual- and triple-shape memory effects (also counting the
permanent shape), respectively. At the molecular level, the maximum number of
temporary shapes a shape memory polymer can memorize correlates directly to the
number of discrete reversible phase transitions (shape memory transitions) in the
polymer. Intuitively, one might deduce that multi-shape memory effects are
achievable simply by introducing additional reversible phase transitions. The
task of synthesizing a polymer with more than two distinctive and strongly bonded
reversible phases, however, is extremely challenging. Tuning shape memory
effects, on the other hand, is often achieved through tailoring the shape memory 
transition temperatures, which requires alteration in the material composition.
Here I show that the perfluorosulphonic acid ionomer (PFSA), which has only one
broad reversible phase transition, exhibits dual-, triple-, and at least
quadruple-shape memory effects, all highly tunable without any change to the
material composition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08863 
PMID: 20220846 


737. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):262-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08876.

Transmission of electrical signals by spin-wave interconversion in a magnetic
insulator.

Kajiwara Y(1), Harii K, Takahashi S, Ohe J, Uchida K, Mizuguchi M, Umezawa H,
Kawai H, Ando K, Takanashi K, Maekawa S, Saitoh E.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Materials Research, Tohoku University, Sendai 980-8577, Japan.

The energy bandgap of an insulator is large enough to prevent electron excitation
and electrical conduction. But in addition to charge, an electron also has spin, 
and the collective motion of spin can propagate-and so transfer a signal-in some 
insulators. This motion is called a spin wave and is usually excited using
magnetic fields. Here we show that a spin wave in an insulator can be generated
and detected using spin-Hall effects, which enable the direct conversion of an
electric signal into a spin wave, and its subsequent transmission through (and
recovery from) an insulator over macroscopic distances. First, we show evidence
for the transfer of spin angular momentum between an insulator magnet
Y(3)Fe(5)O(12) and a platinum film. This transfer allows direct conversion of an 
electric current in the platinum film to a spin wave in the Y(3)Fe(5)O(12) via
spin-Hall effects. Second, making use of the transfer in a Pt/Y(3)Fe(5)O(12)/Pt
system, we demonstrate that an electric current in one metal film induces voltage
in the other, far distant, metal film. Specifically, the applied electric current
is converted into spin angular momentum owing to the spin-Hall effect in the
first platinum film; the angular momentum is then carried by a spin wave in the
insulating Y(3)Fe(5)O(12) layer; at the distant platinum film, the spin angular
momentum of the spin wave is converted back to an electric voltage. This effect
can be switched on and off using a magnetic field. Weak spin damping in
Y(3)Fe(5)O(12) is responsible for its transparency for the transmission of spin
angular momentum. This hybrid electrical transmission method potentially offers a
means of innovative signal delivery in electrical circuits and devices.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08876 
PMID: 20220845 


738. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):259-61. doi: 10.1038/nature08864.

Deviations from a uniform period spacing of gravity modes in a massive star.

Degroote P(1), Aerts C, Baglin A, Miglio A, Briquet M, Noels A, Niemczura E,
Montalban J, Bloemen S, Oreiro R, Vucković M, Smolders K, Auvergne M, Baudin F,
Catala C, Michel E.

Author information: 
(1)Instituut voor Sterrenkunde, KU Leuven, Celestijnenlaan 200D, B-3001 Leuven,
Belgium. pieter.degroote@ster.kuleuven.ac.be

The life of a star is dominantly determined by the physical processes in the
stellar interior. Unfortunately, we still have a poor understanding of how the
stellar gas mixes near the stellar core, preventing precise predictions of
stellar evolution. The unknown nature of the mixing processes as well as the
extent of the central mixed region is particularly problematic for massive stars.
Oscillations in stars with masses a few times that of the Sun offer a unique
opportunity to disentangle the nature of various mixing processes, through the
distinct signature they leave on period spacings in the gravity mode spectrum.
Here we report the detection of numerous gravity modes in a young star with a
mass of about seven solar masses. The mean period spacing allows us to estimate
the extent of the convective core, and the clear periodic deviation from the mean
constrains the location of the chemical transition zone to be at about 10 per
cent of the radius and rules out a clear-cut profile.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08864 
PMID: 20220844 


739. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):256-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08857.

Confirmation of general relativity on large scales from weak lensing and galaxy
velocities.

Reyes R(1), Mandelbaum R, Seljak U, Baldauf T, Gunn JE, Lombriser L, Smith RE.

Author information: 
(1)Princeton University Observatory, Peyton Hall, Princeton, New Jersey 08544,
USA. rreyes@astro.princeton.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):172-3.

Although general relativity underlies modern cosmology, its applicability on
cosmological length scales has yet to be stringently tested. Such a test has
recently been proposed, using a quantity, E(G), that combines measures of
large-scale gravitational lensing, galaxy clustering and structure growth rate.
The combination is insensitive to 'galaxy bias' (the difference between the
clustering of visible galaxies and invisible dark matter) and is thus robust to
the uncertainty in this parameter. Modified theories of gravity generally predict
values of E(G) different from the general relativistic prediction because, in
these theories, the 'gravitational slip' (the difference between the two
potentials that describe perturbations in the gravitational metric) is non-zero, 
which leads to changes in the growth of structure and the strength of the
gravitational lensing effect. Here we report that E(G) = 0.39 +/- 0.06 on length 
scales of tens of megaparsecs, in agreement with the general relativistic
prediction of E(G) approximately 0.4. The measured value excludes a model within 
the tensor-vector-scalar gravity theory, which modifies both Newtonian and
Einstein gravity. However, the relatively large uncertainty still permits models 
within f(R) theory, which is an extension of general relativity. A fivefold
decrease in uncertainty is needed to rule out these models.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08857 
PMID: 20220843 


740. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):237-242. doi: 10.1038/nature08852.

Somatic sex identity is cell autonomous in the chicken.

Zhao D(#)(1), McBride D(#)(1), Nandi S(1), McQueen HA(2), McGrew MJ(1), Hocking
PM(3), Lewis PD(4), Sang HM(1), Clinton M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Developmental Biology The Roslin Institute and Royal (Dick) School
of Veterinary Studies University of Edinburgh Roslin Midlothian EH25 9PS tel:
0131 527 4222.
(2)Institute of Cell Biology University of Edinburgh West Mains Rd Edinburgh EH9 
3JR Tel: 0131-650-5819.
(3)Division of Genetics and Genomics The Roslin Institute and Royal (Dick) School
of Veterinary Studies University of Edinburgh Roslin Midlothian EH25 9PS tel:
0131 527 4222.
(4)Animal and Poultry Science Department University of KwaZulu-Natal
Pietermaritzburg South Africa.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):171-2.

In the mammalian model of sex determination, embryos are considered to be
sexually indifferent until the transient action of a sex-determining gene
initiates gonadal differentiation. Although this model is thought to apply to all
vertebrates, this has yet to be established. Here we have examined three lateral 
gynandromorph chickens (a rare, naturally occurring phenomenon in which one side 
of the animal appears male and the other female) to investigate the
sex-determining mechanism in birds. These studies demonstrated that gynandromorph
birds are genuine male:female chimaeras, and indicated that male and female avian
somatic cells may have an inherent sex identity. To test this hypothesis, we
transplanted presumptive mesoderm between embryos of reciprocal sexes to generate
embryos containing male:female chimaeric gonads. In contrast to the outcome for
mammalian mixed-sex chimaeras, in chicken mixed-sex chimaeras the donor cells
were excluded from the functional structures of the host gonad. In an example
where female tissue was transplanted into a male host, donor cells contributing
to the developing testis retained a female identity and expressed a marker of
female function. Our study demonstrates that avian somatic cells possess an
inherent sex identity and that, in birds, sexual differentiation is substantively
cell autonomous.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08852 
PMCID: PMC3925877
PMID: 20220842  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):224-31. doi: 10.1038/nature08898.

Immunology and the elusive AIDS vaccine.

Virgin HW(1), Walker BD.

Author information: 
(1)Washington University School of Medicine and Midwest Regional Center of
Excellence for Biodefense and Emerging Infectious Disease Research, Campus Box
8118, 660 South Euclid Avenue, Saint Louis, Missouri 63110, USA. virgin@wustl.edu

Developing a human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) vaccine is critical to end the
global acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) epidemic, but many question
whether this goal is achievable. Natural immunity is not protective, and despite 
immunogenicity of HIV vaccine candidates, human trials have exclusively yielded
disappointing results. Nevertheless, there is an indication that success may be
possible, but this will be dependent on understanding the antiviral immune
response in unprecedented depth to identify and engineer the types of immunity
required. Here we outline fundamental immunological questions that need to be
answered to develop a protective HIV vaccine, and the immediate need to harness a
much broader scientific community to achieve this goal.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08898 
PMID: 20220841  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):217-23. doi: 10.1038/nature08757.

Targeting early infection to prevent HIV-1 mucosal transmission.

Haase AT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Minnesota, Minnesota 55455, USA.
haase001@umn.edu

Measures to prevent sexual mucosal transmission of human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV)-1 are urgently needed to curb the growth of the acquired immunodeficiency
syndrome (AIDS) pandemic and ultimately bring it to an end. Studies in animal
models and acute HIV-1 infection reviewed here reveal potential viral
vulnerabilities at the mucosal portal of entry in the earliest stages of
infection that might be most effectively targeted by vaccines and microbicides,
thereby preventing acquisition and averting systemic infection, CD4 T-cell
depletion and pathologies that otherwise rapidly ensue.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08757 
PMID: 20220840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):209-16. doi: 10.1038/nature08918.

Electron liquids and solids in one dimension.

Deshpande VV(1), Bockrath M, Glazman LI, Yacoby A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Columbia University, New York, New York 10027, USA.

Even though bulk metallic systems contain a very large number of strongly
interacting electrons, their properties are well described within Landau's Fermi 
liquid theory of non-interacting quasiparticles. Although many higher-dimensional
systems can be successfully understood on the basis of such non-interacting
theories, this is not possible for one-dimensional systems. When confined to
narrow channels, electron interaction gives rise to such exotic phenomena as
spin-charge separation and the emergence of correlated-electron insulators. Such 
strongly correlated electronic behaviour has recently been seen in experiments on
one-dimensional carbon nanotubes and nanowires, and this behaviour challenges the
theoretical description of such systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08918 
PMID: 20220839 


744. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):199-208. doi: 10.1038/nature08917.

Spin liquids in frustrated magnets.

Balents L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics, University of California, Santa
Barbara, Santa Barbara, California 93106, USA. balents@kitp.ucsb.edu

Frustrated magnets are materials in which localized magnetic moments, or spins,
interact through competing exchange interactions that cannot be simultaneously
satisfied, giving rise to a large degeneracy of the system ground state. Under
certain conditions, this can lead to the formation of fluid-like states of
matter, so-called spin liquids, in which the constituent spins are highly
correlated but still fluctuate strongly down to a temperature of absolute zero.
The fluctuations of the spins in a spin liquid can be classical or quantum and
show remarkable collective phenomena such as emergent gauge fields and fractional
particle excitations. This exotic behaviour is now being uncovered in the
laboratory, providing insight into the properties of spin liquids and challenges 
to the theoretical description of these materials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08917 
PMID: 20220838 


745. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):194-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08916.

The birth of topological insulators.

Moore JE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, 366 Le Conte #7300, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA. jemoore@berkeley.edu

Certain insulators have exotic metallic states on their surfaces. These states
are formed by topological effects that also render the electrons travelling on
such surfaces insensitive to scattering by impurities. Such topological
insulators may provide new routes to generating novel phases and particles,
possibly finding uses in technological applications in spintronics and quantum
computing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08916 
PMID: 20220837 


746. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):187-93. doi: 10.1038/nature08915.

Non-Abelian states of matter.

Stern A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Condensed Matter Physics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot
76100, Israel. adiel.stern@weizmann.ac.il

Quantum mechanics classifies all elementary particles as either fermions or
bosons, and this classification is crucial to the understanding of a variety of
physical systems, such as lasers, metals and superconductors. In certain
two-dimensional systems, interactions between electrons or atoms lead to the
formation of quasiparticles that break the fermion-boson dichotomy. A
particularly interesting alternative is offered by 'non-Abelian' states of
matter, in which the presence of quasiparticles makes the ground state
degenerate, and interchanges of identical quasiparticles shift the system between
different ground states. Present experimental studies attempt to identify
non-Abelian states in systems that manifest the fractional quantum Hall effect.
If such states can be identified, they may become useful for quantum computation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08915 
PMID: 20220836 


747. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):183-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08914.

Superconductivity gets an iron boost.

Mazin II(1).

Author information: 
(1)Naval Research Laboratory, code 6390, 4555 Overlook Avenue Southwest,
Washington, DC 20375, USA. mazin@dave.nrl.navy.mil

Superconductivity, the resistance-free flow of electrical charges, is one of the 
most exotic phenomena in solid-state physics. Even though it was discovered
almost a century ago, many questions remain unanswered, in particular those
concerning the physics of high-temperature superconductivity. The recent
discovery of iron-based superconductors was arguably the most important
breakthrough in this field for more than two decades and may provide new avenues 
for understanding this high-temperature phenomenon. Here I present my view of the
recent developments in this field that have led to the current understanding of
this important new class of superconductor.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08914 
PMID: 20220835 


748. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):176-82. doi: 10.1038/nature08913.

The enigma of supersolidity.

Balibar S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Physique Statistique, Ecole Normale Supérieure and CNRS, 24 rue
Lhomond, 75231 Paris, France. balibar@lps.ens.fr

A 'supersolid' is a quantum solid in which a fraction of the mass is superfluid. 
As a remarkable consequence, it is rigid, but part of its mass is able to flow
owing to quantum physical processes. This paradoxical state of matter was
considered as a theoretical possibility as early as 1969, but its existence was
discovered only in 2004, in (4)He. Since then, intense experimental and
theoretical efforts have been made to explain the origins of this exotic state of
matter. It now seems that its physical interpretation is more complicated than
originally thought.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08913 
PMID: 20220834 


749. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):243-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08779. Epub 2010 Feb 28.

Systems survey of endocytosis by multiparametric image analysis.

Collinet C(1), Stöter M, Bradshaw CR, Samusik N, Rink JC, Kenski D, Habermann B, 
Buchholz F, Henschel R, Mueller MS, Nagel WE, Fava E, Kalaidzidis Y, Zerial M.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics, Germany.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):444.

Comment in
    Dev Cell. 2010 Apr 20;18(4):506-7.

Endocytosis is a complex process fulfilling many cellular and developmental
functions. Understanding how it is regulated and integrated with other cellular
processes requires a comprehensive analysis of its molecular constituents and
general design principles. Here, we developed a new strategy to phenotypically
profile the human genome with respect to transferrin (TF) and epidermal growth
factor (EGF) endocytosis by combining RNA interference, automated high-resolution
confocal microscopy, quantitative multiparametric image analysis and
high-performance computing. We identified several novel components of endocytic
trafficking, including genes implicated in human diseases. We found that
signalling pathways such as Wnt, integrin/cell adhesion, transforming growth
factor (TGF)-beta and Notch regulate the endocytic system, and identified new
genes involved in cargo sorting to a subset of signalling endosomes. A systems
analysis by Bayesian networks further showed that the number, size, concentration
of cargo and intracellular position of endosomes are not determined randomly but 
are subject to specific regulation, thus uncovering novel properties of the
endocytic system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08779 
PMID: 20190736  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):279-82. doi: 10.1038/nature08691. Epub 2010 Feb 24.

Compensatory evolution in mitochondrial tRNAs navigates valleys of low fitness.

Meer MV(1), Kondrashov AS, Artzy-Randrup Y, Kondrashov FA.

Author information: 
(1)Bioinformatics and Genomics Programme, Centre for Genomic Regulation, C/Dr
Aiguader 88, Barcelona Biomedical Research Park Building, 08003 Barcelona, Spain.

A long-standing controversy in evolutionary biology is whether or not evolving
lineages can cross valleys on the fitness landscape that correspond to
low-fitness genotypes, which can eventually enable them to reach isolated fitness
peaks. Here we study the fitness landscapes traversed by switches between
different AU and GC Watson-Crick nucleotide pairs at complementary sites of
mitochondrial transfer RNA stem regions in 83 mammalian species. We find that
such Watson-Crick switches occur 30-40 times more slowly than pairs of neutral
substitutions, and that alleles corresponding to GU and AC non-Watson-Crick
intermediate states segregate within human populations at low frequencies,
similar to those of non-synonymous alleles. Substitutions leading to a
Watson-Crick switch are strongly correlated, especially in mitochondrial tRNAs
encoded on the GT-nucleotide-rich strand of the mitochondrial genome. Using these
data we estimate that a typical Watson-Crick switch involves crossing a fitness
valley of a depth of about 10(-3) or even about 10(-2), with AC intermediates
being slightly more deleterious than GU intermediates. This compensatory
evolution must proceed through rare intermediate variants that never reach
fixation. The ubiquitous nature of compensatory evolution in mammalian
mitochondrial tRNAs and other molecules implies that simultaneous fixation of two
alleles that are individually deleterious may be a common phenomenon at the
molecular level.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08691 
PMID: 20182427  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):275-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08798. Epub 2010 Feb 24.

Antagonistic coevolution accelerates molecular evolution.

Paterson S(1), Vogwill T, Buckling A, Benmayor R, Spiers AJ, Thomson NR, Quail M,
Smith F, Walker D, Libberton B, Fenton A, Hall N, Brockhurst MA.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Biosciences Building, University of Liverpool, 
Crown Street, Liverpool L69 7ZB, UK.

The Red Queen hypothesis proposes that coevolution of interacting species (such
as hosts and parasites) should drive molecular evolution through continual
natural selection for adaptation and counter-adaptation. Although the divergence 
observed at some host-resistance and parasite-infectivity genes is consistent
with this, the long time periods typically required to study coevolution have so 
far prevented any direct empirical test. Here we show, using experimental
populations of the bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens SBW25 and its viral
parasite, phage Phi2 (refs 10, 11), that the rate of molecular evolution in the
phage was far higher when both bacterium and phage coevolved with each other than
when phage evolved against a constant host genotype. Coevolution also resulted in
far greater genetic divergence between replicate populations, which was
correlated with the range of hosts that coevolved phage were able to infect.
Consistent with this, the most rapidly evolving phage genes under coevolution
were those involved in host infection. These results demonstrate, at both the
genomic and phenotypic level, that antagonistic coevolution is a cause of rapid
and divergent evolution, and is likely to be a major driver of evolutionary
change within species.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08798 
PMCID: PMC3717453
PMID: 20182425  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):283-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08818. Epub 2010 Feb 21.

Sister chromosome pairing maintains heterozygosity in parthenogenetic lizards.

Lutes AA(1), Neaves WB, Baumann DP, Wiegraebe W, Baumann P.

Author information: 
(1)Stowers Institute for Medical Research, Kansas City, Missouri 64110, USA.

Although bisexual reproduction has proven to be highly successful,
parthenogenetic all-female populations occur frequently in certain taxa,
including the whiptail lizards of the genus Aspidoscelis. Allozyme analysis
revealed a high degree of fixed heterozygosity in these parthenogenetic species, 
supporting the view that they originated from hybridization events between
related sexual species. It has remained unclear how the meiotic program is
altered to produce diploid eggs while maintaining heterozygosity. Here we show
that meiosis commences with twice the number of chromosomes in parthenogenetic
versus sexual species, a mechanism that provides the basis for generating gametes
with unreduced chromosome content without fundamental deviation from the classic 
meiotic program. Our observation of synaptonemal complexes and chiasmata
demonstrate that a typical meiotic program occurs and that heterozygosity is not 
maintained by bypassing recombination. Instead, fluorescent in situ hybridization
probes that distinguish between homologues reveal that bivalents form between
sister chromosomes, the genetically identical products of the first of two
premeiotic replication cycles. Sister chromosome pairing provides a mechanism for
the maintenance of heterozygosity, which is critical for offsetting the reduced
fitness associated with the lack of genetic diversity in parthenogenetic species.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08818 
PMCID: PMC2840635
PMID: 20173738  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):250-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08756. Epub 2010 Feb 17.

The primary transcriptome of the major human pathogen Helicobacter pylori.

Sharma CM(1), Hoffmann S, Darfeuille F, Reignier J, Findeiss S, Sittka A, Chabas 
S, Reiche K, Hackermüller J, Reinhardt R, Stadler PF, Vogel J.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Infection Biology, RNA Biology Group, D-10117 Berlin,
Germany.

Genome sequencing of Helicobacter pylori has revealed the potential proteins and 
genetic diversity of this prevalent human pathogen, yet little is known about its
transcriptional organization and noncoding RNA output. Massively parallel cDNA
sequencing (RNA-seq) has been revolutionizing global transcriptomic analysis.
Here, using a novel differential approach (dRNA-seq) selective for the 5' end of 
primary transcripts, we present a genome-wide map of H. pylori transcriptional
start sites and operons. We discovered hundreds of transcriptional start sites
within operons, and opposite to annotated genes, indicating that complexity of
gene expression from the small H. pylori genome is increased by uncoupling of
polycistrons and by genome-wide antisense transcription. We also discovered an
unexpected number of approximately 60 small RNAs including the
epsilon-subdivision counterpart of the regulatory 6S RNA and associated RNA
products, and potential regulators of cis- and trans-encoded target messenger
RNAs. Our approach establishes a paradigm for mapping and annotating the primary 
transcriptomes of many living species.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08756 
PMID: 20164839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):292-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08792. Epub 2010 Feb 17.

Telomere elongation in induced pluripotent stem cells from dyskeratosis congenita
patients.

Agarwal S(1), Loh YH, McLoughlin EM, Huang J, Park IH, Miller JD, Huo H, Okuka M,
Dos Reis RM, Loewer S, Ng HH, Keefe DL, Goldman FD, Klingelhutz AJ, Liu L, Daley 
GQ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Children's Hospital Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

Patients with dyskeratosis congenita (DC), a disorder of telomere maintenance,
suffer degeneration of multiple tissues. Patient-specific induced pluripotent
stem (iPS) cells represent invaluable in vitro models for human degenerative
disorders like DC. A cardinal feature of iPS cells is acquisition of indefinite
self-renewal capacity, which is accompanied by induction of the telomerase
reverse transcriptase gene (TERT). We investigated whether defects in telomerase 
function would limit derivation and maintenance of iPS cells from patients with
DC. Here we show that reprogrammed DC cells overcome a critical limitation in
telomerase RNA component (TERC) levels to restore telomere maintenance and
self-renewal. We discovered that TERC upregulation is a feature of the
pluripotent state, that several telomerase components are targeted by
pluripotency-associated transcription factors, and that in autosomal dominant DC,
transcriptional silencing accompanies a 3' deletion at the TERC locus. Our
results demonstrate that reprogramming restores telomere elongation in DC cells
despite genetic lesions affecting telomerase, and show that strategies to
increase TERC expression may be therapeutically beneficial in DC patients.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08792 
PMCID: PMC3058620
PMID: 20164838  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):232-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08784. Epub 2010 Jan 31.

Retroviral intasome assembly and inhibition of DNA strand transfer.

Hare S(1), Gupta SS, Valkov E, Engelman A, Cherepanov P.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medicine, Imperial College London, St-Mary's Campus, Norfolk
Place, London W2 1PG, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):167-8.

Integrase is an essential retroviral enzyme that binds both termini of linear
viral DNA and inserts them into a host cell chromosome. The structure of
full-length retroviral integrase, either separately or in complex with DNA, has
been lacking. Furthermore, although clinically useful inhibitors of HIV integrase
have been developed, their mechanism of action remains speculative. Here we
present a crystal structure of full-length integrase from the prototype foamy
virus in complex with its cognate DNA. The structure shows the organization of
the retroviral intasome comprising an integrase tetramer tightly associated with 
a pair of viral DNA ends. All three canonical integrase structural domains are
involved in extensive protein-DNA and protein-protein interactions. The binding
of strand-transfer inhibitors displaces the reactive viral DNA end from the
active site, disarming the viral nucleoprotein complex. Our findings define the
structural basis of retroviral DNA integration, and will allow modelling of the
HIV-1 intasome to aid in the development of antiretroviral drugs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08784 
PMCID: PMC2837123
PMID: 20118915  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):297-301. doi: 10.1038/nature08783. Epub 2010 Jan
27.

The cells and peripheral representation of sodium taste in mice.

Chandrashekar J(1), Kuhn C, Oka Y, Yarmolinsky DA, Hummler E, Ryba NJ, Zuker CS.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Neurobiology, University of 
California at San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093-0649, USA

Salt taste in mammals can trigger two divergent behavioural responses. In
general, concentrated saline solutions elicit robust behavioural aversion,
whereas low concentrations of NaCl are typically attractive, particularly after
sodium depletion. Notably, the attractive salt pathway is selectively responsive 
to sodium and inhibited by amiloride, whereas the aversive one functions as a
non-selective detector for a wide range of salts. Because amiloride is a potent
inhibitor of the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC), ENaC has been proposed to
function as a component of the salt-taste-receptor system. Previously, we showed 
that four of the five basic taste qualities-sweet, sour, bitter and umami-are
mediated by separate taste-receptor cells (TRCs) each tuned to a single taste
modality, and wired to elicit stereotypical behavioural responses. Here we show
that sodium sensing is also mediated by a dedicated population of TRCs. These
taste cells express the epithelial sodium channel ENaC, and mediate behavioural
attraction to NaCl. We genetically engineered mice lacking ENaCalpha in TRCs, and
produced animals exhibiting a complete loss of salt attraction and sodium taste
responses. Together, these studies substantiate independent cellular substrates
for all five basic taste qualities, and validate the essential role of ENaC for
sodium taste in mice.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08783 
PMCID: PMC2849629
PMID: 20107438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Nature. 2010 Mar 11;464(7286):306-10. doi: 10.1038/nature08788.

JARID2 regulates binding of the Polycomb repressive complex 2 to target genes in 
ES cells.

Pasini D(1), Cloos PA, Walfridsson J, Olsson L, Bukowski JP, Johansen JV, Bak M, 
Tommerup N, Rappsilber J, Helin K.

Author information: 
(1)Biotech Research and Innovation Centre (BRIC), University of Copenhagen, Ole
Maaløes Vej 5, 2200 Copenhagen N, Denmark.

The Polycomb group (PcG) proteins have an important role in controlling the
expression of genes essential for development, differentiation and maintenance of
cell fates. The Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) is believed to regulate
transcriptional repression by catalysing the di- and tri-methylation of lysine 27
on histone H3 (H3K27me2/3). At present, it is unknown how the PcG proteins are
recruited to their target promoters in mammalian cells. Here we show that PRC2
forms a stable complex with the Jumonji- and ARID-domain-containing protein,
JARID2 (ref. 4). Using genome-wide location analysis, we show that JARID2 binds
to more than 90% of previously mapped PcG target genes. Notably, we show that
JARID2 is sufficient to recruit PcG proteins to a heterologous promoter, and that
inhibition of JARID2 expression leads to a major loss of PcG binding and to a
reduction of H3K27me3 levels on target genes. Consistent with an essential role
for PcG proteins in early development, we demonstrate that JARID2 is required for
the differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cells. Thus, these results
demonstrate that JARID2 is essential for the binding of PcG proteins to target
genes and, consistent with this, for the proper differentiation of embryonic stem
cells and normal development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08788 
PMID: 20075857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Nature. 2010 Mar 4;464(7285):121-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08778.

SIRT3 regulates mitochondrial fatty-acid oxidation by reversible enzyme
deacetylation.

Hirschey MD(1), Shimazu T, Goetzman E, Jing E, Schwer B, Lombard DB, Grueter CA, 
Harris C, Biddinger S, Ilkayeva OR, Stevens RD, Li Y, Saha AK, Ruderman NB, Bain 
JR, Newgard CB, Farese RV Jr, Alt FW, Kahn CR, Verdin E.

Author information: 
(1)Gladstone Institute of Virology and Immunology, San Francisco, California
94158, USA.

Sirtuins are NAD(+)-dependent protein deacetylases. They mediate adaptive
responses to a variety of stresses, including calorie restriction and metabolic
stress. Sirtuin 3 (SIRT3) is localized in the mitochondrial matrix, where it
regulates the acetylation levels of metabolic enzymes, including acetyl coenzyme 
A synthetase 2 (refs 1, 2). Mice lacking both Sirt3 alleles appear phenotypically
normal under basal conditions, but show marked hyperacetylation of several
mitochondrial proteins. Here we report that SIRT3 expression is upregulated
during fasting in liver and brown adipose tissues. During fasting, livers from
mice lacking SIRT3 had higher levels of fatty-acid oxidation intermediate
products and triglycerides, associated with decreased levels of fatty-acid
oxidation, compared to livers from wild-type mice. Mass spectrometry of
mitochondrial proteins shows that long-chain acyl coenzyme A dehydrogenase (LCAD)
is hyperacetylated at lysine 42 in the absence of SIRT3. LCAD is deacetylated in 
wild-type mice under fasted conditions and by SIRT3 in vitro and in vivo; and
hyperacetylation of LCAD reduces its enzymatic activity. Mice lacking SIRT3
exhibit hallmarks of fatty-acid oxidation disorders during fasting, including
reduced ATP levels and intolerance to cold exposure. These findings identify
acetylation as a novel regulatory mechanism for mitochondrial fatty-acid
oxidation and demonstrate that SIRT3 modulates mitochondrial intermediary
metabolism and fatty-acid use during fasting.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08778 
PMCID: PMC2841477
PMID: 20203611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Nature. 2010 Mar 4;464(7285):104-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08780.

Circulating mitochondrial DAMPs cause inflammatory responses to injury.

Zhang Q(1), Raoof M, Chen Y, Sumi Y, Sursal T, Junger W, Brohi K, Itagaki K,
Hauser CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Trauma, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
Center and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Mar 4;464(7285):41-2.

Injury causes a systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) that is clinically
much like sepsis. Microbial pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs)
activate innate immunocytes through pattern recognition receptors. Similarly,
cellular injury can release endogenous 'damage'-associated molecular patterns
(DAMPs) that activate innate immunity. Mitochondria are evolutionary
endosymbionts that were derived from bacteria and so might bear bacterial
molecular motifs. Here we show that injury releases mitochondrial DAMPs (MTDs)
into the circulation with functionally important immune consequences. MTDs
include formyl peptides and mitochondrial DNA. These activate human
polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMNs) through formyl peptide receptor-1 and
Toll-like receptor (TLR) 9, respectively. MTDs promote PMN Ca(2+) flux and
phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases, thus leading to PMN
migration and degranulation in vitro and in vivo. Circulating MTDs can elicit
neutrophil-mediated organ injury. Cellular disruption by trauma releases
mitochondrial DAMPs with evolutionarily conserved similarities to bacterial PAMPs
into the circulation. These signal through innate immune pathways identical to
those activated in sepsis to create a sepsis-like state. The release of such
mitochondrial 'enemies within' by cellular injury is a key link between trauma,
inflammation and SIRS.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08780 
PMCID: PMC2843437
PMID: 20203610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Nature. 2010 Mar 4;464(7285):99-103. doi: 10.1038/nature08789.

Changes in Hox genes' structure and function during the evolution of the squamate
body plan.

Di-Poï N(1), Montoya-Burgos JI, Miller H, Pourquié O, Milinkovitch MC, Duboule D.

Author information: 
(1)National Research Center Frontiers in Genetics, Department of Zoology and
Animal Biology, University of Geneva, Sciences III, 1211 Geneva 4, Switzerland.

Hox genes are central to the specification of structures along the
anterior-posterior body axis, and modifications in their expression have
paralleled the emergence of diversity in vertebrate body plans. Here we describe 
the genomic organization of Hox clusters in different reptiles and show that
squamates have accumulated unusually large numbers of transposable elements at
these loci, reflecting extensive genomic rearrangements of coding and non-coding 
regulatory regions. Comparative expression analyses between two species showing
different axial skeletons, the corn snake and the whiptail lizard, revealed major
alterations in Hox13 and Hox10 expression features during snake somitogenesis, in
line with the expansion of both caudal and thoracic regions. Variations in both
protein sequences and regulatory modalities of posterior Hox genes suggest how
this genetic system has dealt with its intrinsic collinear constraint to
accompany the substantial morphological radiation observed in this group.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08789 
PMID: 20203609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Nature. 2010 Mar 4;464(7285):95-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08718.

Ecologically distinct dinosaurian sister group shows early diversification of
Ornithodira.

Nesbitt SJ(1), Sidor CA, Irmis RB, Angielczyk KD, Smith RM, Tsuji LA.

Author information: 
(1)Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Columbia University, Palisades, New York
10964, USA.

The early evolutionary history of Ornithodira (avian-line archosaurs) has
hitherto been documented by incomplete (Lagerpeton) or unusually specialized
forms (pterosaurs and Silesaurus). Recently, a variety of Silesaurus-like taxa
have been reported from the Triassic period of both Gondwana and Laurasia, but
their relationships to each other and to dinosaurs remain a subject of debate.
Here we report on a new avian-line archosaur from the early Middle Triassic
(Anisian) of Tanzania. Phylogenetic analysis places Asilisaurus kongwe gen. et
sp. nov. as an avian-line archosaur and a member of the Silesauridae, which is
here considered the sister taxon to Dinosauria. Silesaurids were diverse and had 
a wide distribution by the Late Triassic, with a novel ornithodiran bauplan
including leaf-shaped teeth, a beak-like lower jaw, long, gracile limbs, and a
quadrupedal stance. Our analysis suggests that the dentition and diet of
silesaurids, ornithischians and sauropodomorphs evolved independently from a
plesiomorphic carnivorous form. As the oldest avian-line archosaur, Asilisaurus
demonstrates the antiquity of both Ornithodira and the dinosaurian lineage. The
initial diversification of Archosauria, previously documented by crocodilian-line
archosaurs in the Anisian, can now be shown to include a contemporaneous
avian-line radiation. The unparalleled taxonomic diversity of the Manda archosaur
assemblage indicates that archosaur diversification was well underway by the
Middle Triassic or earlier.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08718 
PMID: 20203608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Nature. 2010 Mar 4;464(7285):85-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08862.

Helical crack-front instability in mixed-mode fracture.

Pons AJ(1), Karma A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Center for Interdisciplinary Research on Complex
Systems, Northeastern University, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Mar 4;464(7285):42-3.

Planar crack propagation under pure tension loading (mode I) is generally stable.
However, it becomes universally unstable with the superposition of a shear stress
parallel to the crack front (mode III). Under this mixed-mode (I + III) loading
configuration, an initially flat parent crack segments into an array of daughter 
cracks that rotate towards a direction of maximum tensile stress. This
segmentation produces stepped fracture surfaces with characteristic
'lance-shaped' markings observed in a wide range of engineering and geological
materials. The origin of this instability remains poorly understood and a theory 
with which to predict the surface roughness scale is lacking. Here we perform
large-scale simulations of mixed-mode I + III brittle fracture using a continuum 
phase-field method that describes the complete three-dimensional crack-front
evolution. The simulations reveal that planar crack propagation is linearly
unstable against helical deformations of the crack front, which evolve
nonlinearly into a segmented array of finger-shaped daughter cracks. Furthermore,
during their evolution, facets gradually coarsen owing to the growth competition 
of daughter cracks in striking analogy with the coarsening of finger patterns
observed in nonequilibrium growth phenomena. We show that the dynamically
preferred unstable wavelength is governed by the balance of the destabilizing
effect of far-field stresses and the stabilizing effect of cohesive forces on the
process zone scale, and we derive a theoretical estimate for this scale using a
new propagation law for curved cracks in three dimensions. The rotation angles of
coarsened facets are also compared to theoretical predictions and available
experimental data.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08862 
PMID: 20203607 


763. Nature. 2010 Mar 4;464(7285):80-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08813.

Reinventing germanium avalanche photodetector for nanophotonic on-chip optical
interconnects.

Assefa S(1), Xia F, Vlasov YA.

Author information: 
(1)IBM T. J. Watson Research Center, Yorktown Heights, New York 10598, USA.
sassefa@us.ibm.com

Integration of optical communication circuits directly into high-performance
microprocessor chips can enable extremely powerful computer systems. A germanium 
photodetector that can be monolithically integrated with silicon transistor
technology is viewed as a key element in connecting chip components with infrared
optical signals. Such a device should have the capability to detect
very-low-power optical signals at very high speed. Although germanium avalanche
photodetectors (APD) using charge amplification close to avalanche breakdown can 
achieve high gain and thus detect low-power optical signals, they are universally
considered to suffer from an intolerably high amplification noise characteristic 
of germanium. High gain with low excess noise has been demonstrated using a
germanium layer only for detection of light signals, with amplification taking
place in a separate silicon layer. However, the relatively thick semiconductor
layers that are required in such structures limit APD speeds to about 10 GHz, and
require excessively high bias voltages of around 25 V (ref. 12). Here we show how
nanophotonic and nanoelectronic engineering aimed at shaping optical and
electrical fields on the nanometre scale within a germanium amplification layer
can overcome the otherwise intrinsically poor noise characteristics, achieving a 
dramatic reduction of amplification noise by over 70 per cent. By generating
strongly non-uniform electric fields, the region of impact ionization in
germanium is reduced to just 30 nm, allowing the device to benefit from the noise
reduction effects that arise at these small distances. Furthermore, the smallness
of the APDs means that a bias voltage of only 1.5 V is required to achieve an
avalanche gain of over 10 dB with operational speeds exceeding 30 GHz. Monolithic
integration of such a device into computer chips might enable applications beyond
computer optical interconnects-in telecommunications, secure quantum key
distribution, and subthreshold ultralow-power transistors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08813 
PMID: 20203606 


764. Nature. 2010 Mar 4;464(7285):76-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08859.

Superconductivity in alkali-metal-doped picene.

Mitsuhashi R(1), Suzuki Y, Yamanari Y, Mitamura H, Kambe T, Ikeda N, Okamoto H,
Fujiwara A, Yamaji M, Kawasaki N, Maniwa Y, Kubozono Y.

Author information: 
(1)Research Laboratory for Surface Science, Okayama University, Okayama 700-8530,
Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Mar 4;464(7285):39-41.

Efforts to identify and develop new superconducting materials continue apace,
motivated by both fundamental science and the prospects for application. For
example, several new superconducting material systems have been developed in the 
recent past, including calcium-intercalated graphite compounds, boron-doped
diamond and-most prominently-iron arsenides such as LaO(1-x)F(x)FeAs (ref. 3). In
the case of organic superconductors, however, no new material system with a high 
superconducting transition temperature (T(c)) has been discovered in the past
decade. Here we report that intercalating an alkali metal into picene, a
wide-bandgap semiconducting solid hydrocarbon, produces metallic behaviour and
superconductivity. Solid potassium-intercalated picene (K(x)picene) shows T(c)
values of 7 K and 18 K, depending on the metal content. The drop of magnetization
in K(x)picene solids at the transition temperature is sharp (<2 K), similar to
the behaviour of Ca-intercalated graphite. The T(c) of 18 K is comparable to that
of K-intercalated C(60) (ref. 4). This discovery of superconductivity in
K(x)picene shows that organic hydrocarbons are promising candidates for improved 
T(c) values.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08859 
PMID: 20203605 


765. Nature. 2010 Mar 4;464(7285):72-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08772.

Linking dwarf galaxies to halo building blocks with the most metal-poor star in
Sculptor.

Frebel A(1), Kirby EN, Simon JD.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138,
USA. afrebel@cfa.harvard.edu

Current cosmological models indicate that the Milky Way's stellar halo was
assembled from many smaller systems. On the basis of the apparent absence of the 
most metal-poor stars in present-day dwarf galaxies, recent studies claimed that 
the true Galactic building blocks must have been vastly different from the
surviving dwarfs. The discovery of an extremely iron-poor star (S1020549) in the 
Sculptor dwarf galaxy based on a medium-resolution spectrum cast some doubt on
this conclusion. Verification of the iron-deficiency, however, and measurements
of additional elements, such as the alpha-element Mg, are necessary to
demonstrate that the same type of stars produced the metals found in dwarf
galaxies and the Galactic halo. Only then can dwarf galaxy stars be conclusively 
linked to early stellar halo assembly. Here we report high-resolution
spectroscopic abundances for 11 elements in S1020549, confirming its iron
abundance of less than 1/4,000th that of the Sun, and showing that the overall
abundance pattern follows that seen in low-metallicity halo stars, including the 
alpha-elements. Such chemical similarity indicates that the systems destroyed to 
form the halo billions of years ago were not fundamentally different from the
progenitors of present-day dwarfs, and suggests that the early chemical
enrichment of all galaxies may be nearly identical.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08772 
PMID: 20203604 


766. Nature. 2010 Mar 4;464(7285):59-65. doi: 10.1038/nature08821.

A human gut microbial gene catalogue established by metagenomic sequencing.

Qin J(1), Li R, Raes J, Arumugam M, Burgdorf KS, Manichanh C, Nielsen T, Pons N, 
Levenez F, Yamada T, Mende DR, Li J, Xu J, Li S, Li D, Cao J, Wang B, Liang H,
Zheng H, Xie Y, Tap J, Lepage P, Bertalan M, Batto JM, Hansen T, Le Paslier D,
Linneberg A, Nielsen HB, Pelletier E, Renault P, Sicheritz-Ponten T, Turner K,
Zhu H, Yu C, Li S, Jian M, Zhou Y, Li Y, Zhang X, Li S, Qin N, Yang H, Wang J,
Brunak S, Doré J, Guarner F, Kristiansen K, Pedersen O, Parkhill J, Weissenbach
J; MetaHIT Consortium, Bork P, Ehrlich SD, Wang J.

Collaborators: Antolin M, Artiguenave F, Blottiere H, Borruel N, Bruls T,
Casellas F, Chervaux C, Cultrone A, Delorme C, Denariaz G, Dervyn R, Forte M,
Friss C, van de Guchte M, Guedon E, Haimet F, Jamet A, Juste C, Kaci G,
Kleerebezem M, Knol J, Kristensen M, Layec S, Le Roux K, Leclerc M, Maguin E,
Minardi RM, Oozeer R, Rescigno M, Sanchez N, Tims S, Torrejon T, Varela E, de Vos
W, Winogradsky Y, Zoetendal E.

Author information: 
(1)BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518083, China.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2010 Apr;11(4):237.

To understand the impact of gut microbes on human health and well-being it is
crucial to assess their genetic potential. Here we describe the Illumina-based
metagenomic sequencing, assembly and characterization of 3.3 million
non-redundant microbial genes, derived from 576.7 gigabases of sequence, from
faecal samples of 124 European individuals. The gene set, approximately 150 times
larger than the human gene complement, contains an overwhelming majority of the
prevalent (more frequent) microbial genes of the cohort and probably includes a
large proportion of the prevalent human intestinal microbial genes. The genes are
largely shared among individuals of the cohort. Over 99% of the genes are
bacterial, indicating that the entire cohort harbours between 1,000 and 1,150
prevalent bacterial species and each individual at least 160 such species, which 
are also largely shared. We define and describe the minimal gut metagenome and
the minimal gut bacterial genome in terms of functions present in all individuals
and most bacteria, respectively.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08821 
PMCID: PMC3779803
PMID: 20203603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Nature. 2010 Mar 4;464(7285):45-53. doi: 10.1038/nature08812.

Quantum computers.

Ladd TD(1), Jelezko F, Laflamme R, Nakamura Y, Monroe C, O'Brien JL.

Author information: 
(1)Edward L. Ginzton Laboratory, Stanford University, Stanford, California
94305-4088, USA.

Over the past several decades, quantum information science has emerged to seek
answers to the question: can we gain some advantage by storing, transmitting and 
processing information encoded in systems that exhibit unique quantum properties?
Today it is understood that the answer is yes, and many research groups around
the world are working towards the highly ambitious technological goal of building
a quantum computer, which would dramatically improve computational power for
particular tasks. A number of physical systems, spanning much of modern physics, 
are being developed for quantum computation. However, it remains unclear which
technology, if any, will ultimately prove successful. Here we describe the latest
developments for each of the leading approaches and explain the major challenges 
for the future.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08812 
PMID: 20203602 


768. Nature. 2010 Mar 4;464(7285):90-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08786. Epub 2010 Feb 21.

Metabolic streamlining in an open-ocean nitrogen-fixing cyanobacterium.

Tripp HJ(1), Bench SR, Turk KA, Foster RA, Desany BA, Niazi F, Affourtit JP, Zehr
JP.

Author information: 
(1)Ocean Sciences Department, University of California, Santa Cruz, 1156 High
Street, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA.

Nitrogen (N(2))-fixing marine cyanobacteria are an important source of fixed
inorganic nitrogen that supports oceanic primary productivity and carbon dioxide 
removal from the atmosphere. A globally distributed, periodically abundant
N(2)-fixing marine cyanobacterium, UCYN-A, was recently found to lack the
oxygen-producing photosystem II complex of the photosynthetic apparatus,
indicating a novel metabolism, but remains uncultivated. Here we show, from
metabolic reconstructions inferred from the assembly of the complete UCYN-A
genome using massively parallel pyrosequencing of paired-end reads, that UCYN-A
has a photofermentative metabolism and is dependent on other organisms for
essential compounds. We found that UCYN-A lacks a number of major metabolic
pathways including the tricarboxylic acid cycle, but retains sufficient electron 
transport capacity to generate energy and reducing power from light.
Unexpectedly, UCYN-A has a reduced genome (1.44 megabases) that is structurally
similar to many chloroplasts and some bacteria, in that it contains inverted
repeats of ribosomal RNA operons. The lack of biosynthetic pathways for several
amino acids and purines suggests that this organism depends on other organisms,
either in close association or in symbiosis, for critical nutrients. However,
size fractionation experiments using natural populations have so far not provided
evidence of a symbiotic association with another microorganism. The UCYN-A
cyanobacterium is a paradox in evolution and adaptation to the marine
environment, and is an example of the tight metabolic coupling between
microorganisms in oligotrophic oceanic microbial communities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08786 
PMID: 20173737  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Nature. 2010 Mar 4;464(7285):54-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08791. Epub 2010 Feb 17.

Remarkably ancient balanced polymorphisms in a multi-locus gene network.

Hittinger CT(1), Gonçalves P, Sampaio JP, Dover J, Johnston M, Rokas A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, University of Colorado
School of Medicine, Aurora, Colorado 80045, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2010 Apr;11(4):238.

Local adaptations within species are often governed by several interacting genes 
scattered throughout the genome. Single-locus models of selection cannot explain 
the maintenance of such complex variation because recombination separates
co-adapted alleles. Here we report a previously unrecognized type of
intraspecific multi-locus genetic variation that has been maintained over a vast 
period. The galactose (GAL) utilization gene network of Saccharomyces
kudriavzevii, a relative of brewer's yeast, exists in two distinct states: a
functional gene network in Portuguese strains and, in Japanese strains, a
non-functional gene network of allelic pseudogenes. Genome sequencing of all
available S. kudriavzevii strains revealed that none of the functional GAL genes 
were acquired from other species. Rather, these polymorphisms have been
maintained for nearly the entire history of the species, despite more recent gene
flow genome-wide. Experimental evidence suggests that inactivation of the GAL3
and GAL80 regulatory genes facilitated the origin and long-term maintenance of
the two gene network states. This striking example of a balanced unlinked gene
network polymorphism introduces a remarkable type of intraspecific variation that
may be widespread.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08791 
PMCID: PMC2834422
PMID: 20164837  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Nature. 2010 Mar 4;464(7285):108-11. doi: 10.1038/nature08738. Epub 2010 Feb 14.

Haematopoietic stem cells derive directly from aortic endothelium during
development.

Bertrand JY(1), Chi NC, Santoso B, Teng S, Stainier DY, Traver D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093-0380, USA.

A major goal of regenerative medicine is to instruct formation of multipotent,
tissue-specific stem cells from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) for cell
replacement therapies. Generation of haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) from iPSCs 
or embryonic stem cells (ESCs) is not currently possible, however, necessitating 
a better understanding of how HSCs normally arise during embryonic development.
We previously showed that haematopoiesis occurs through four distinct waves
during zebrafish development, with HSCs arising in the final wave in close
association with the dorsal aorta. Recent reports have suggested that murine HSCs
derive from haemogenic endothelial cells (ECs) lining the aortic floor.
Additional in vitro studies have similarly indicated that the haematopoietic
progeny of ESCs arise through intermediates with endothelial potential. Here we
have used the unique strengths of the zebrafish embryo to image directly the
generation of HSCs from the ventral wall of the dorsal aorta. Using combinations 
of fluorescent reporter transgenes, confocal time-lapse microscopy and flow
cytometry, we have identified and isolated the stepwise intermediates as aortic
haemogenic endothelium transitions to nascent HSCs. Finally, using a permanent
lineage tracing strategy, we demonstrate that the HSCs generated from haemogenic 
endothelium are the lineal founders of the adult haematopoietic system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08738 
PMCID: PMC2858358
PMID: 20154733  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Nature. 2010 Mar 4;464(7285):112-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08761. Epub 2010 Feb 14.

Blood stem cells emerge from aortic endothelium by a novel type of cell
transition.

Kissa K(1), Herbomel P.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Pasteur, Unité Macrophages et Développement de l'Immunité and CNRS:
URA2578, 25 rue du Dr Roux, F-75724 Paris CEDEX 15, France.

The ontogeny of haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) during embryonic development is 
still highly debated, especially their possible lineage relationship to vascular 
endothelial cells. The first anatomical site from which cells with long-term HSC 
potential have been isolated is the aorta-gonad-mesonephros (AGM), more
specifically the vicinity of the dorsal aortic floor. But although some authors
have presented evidence that HSCs may arise directly from the aortic floor into
the dorsal aortic lumen, others support the notion that HSCs first emerge within 
the underlying mesenchyme. Here we show by non-invasive, high-resolution imaging 
of live zebrafish embryos, that HSCs emerge directly from the aortic floor,
through a stereotyped process that does not involve cell division but a strong
bending then egress of single endothelial cells from the aortic ventral wall into
the sub-aortic space, and their concomitant transformation into haematopoietic
cells. The process is polarized not only in the dorso-ventral but also in the
rostro-caudal versus medio-lateral direction, and depends on Runx1 expression: in
Runx1-deficient embryos, the exit events are initially similar, but much rarer,
and abort into violent death of the exiting cell. These results demonstrate that 
the aortic floor is haemogenic and that HSCs emerge from it into the sub-aortic
space, not by asymmetric cell division but through a new type of cell behaviour, 
which we call an endothelial haematopoietic transition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08761 
PMID: 20154732  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Nature. 2010 Mar 4;464(7285):116-20. doi: 10.1038/nature08764. Epub 2010 Feb 14.

In vivo imaging of haematopoietic cells emerging from the mouse aortic
endothelium.

Boisset JC(1), van Cappellen W, Andrieu-Soler C, Galjart N, Dzierzak E, Robin C.

Author information: 
(1)Erasmus Medical Center, Department of Cell Biology, CA Rotterdam, The
Netherlands.

Haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), responsible for blood production in the adult
mouse, are first detected in the dorsal aorta starting at embryonic day 10.5
(E10.5). Immunohistological analysis of fixed embryo sections has revealed the
presence of haematopoietic cell clusters attached to the aortic endothelium where
HSCs might localize. The origin of HSCs has long been controversial and several
candidates of the direct HSC precursors have been proposed (for review see ref.
7), including a specialized endothelial cell population with a haemogenic
potential. Such cells have been described both in vitro in the embryonic stem
cell (ESC) culture system and retrospectively in vivo by endothelial lineage
tracing and conditional deletion experiments. Whether the transition from
haemogenic endothelium to HSC actually occurs in the mouse embryonic aorta is
still unclear and requires direct and real-time in vivo observation. To address
this issue we used time-lapse confocal imaging and a new dissection procedure to 
visualize the deeply located aorta. Here we show the dynamic de novo emergence of
phenotypically defined HSCs (Sca1(+), c-kit(+), CD41(+)) directly from ventral
aortic haemogenic endothelial cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08764 
PMID: 20154729  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Nature. 2010 Mar 4;464(7285):66-71. doi: 10.1038/nature08834. Epub 2010 Feb 3.

Odorant reception in the malaria mosquito Anopheles gambiae.

Carey AF(1), Wang G, Su CY, Zwiebel LJ, Carlson JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, Yale University, 
New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Mar 4;464(7285):37-8.

The mosquito Anopheles gambiae is the major vector of malaria in sub-Saharan
Africa. It locates its human hosts primarily through olfaction, but little is
known about the molecular basis of this process. Here we functionally
characterize the Anopheles gambiae odorant receptor (AgOr) repertoire. We
identify receptors that respond strongly to components of human odour and that
may act in the process of human recognition. Some of these receptors are narrowly
tuned, and some salient odorants elicit strong responses from only one or a few
receptors, suggesting a central role for specific transmission channels in human 
host-seeking behaviour. This analysis of the Anopheles gambiae receptors permits 
a comparison with the corresponding Drosophila melanogaster odorant receptor
repertoire. We find that odorants are differentially encoded by the two species
in ways consistent with their ecological needs. Our analysis of the Anopheles
gambiae repertoire identifies receptors that may be useful targets for
controlling the transmission of malaria.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08834 
PMCID: PMC2833235
PMID: 20130575  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1092-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08762.

An essential role for XBP-1 in host protection against immune activation in C.
elegans.

Richardson CE(1), Kooistra T, Kim DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2010 May;20(5):506-7.

The detection and compensatory response to the accumulation of unfolded proteins 
in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), termed the unfolded protein response (UPR),
represents a conserved cellular homeostatic mechanism with important roles in
normal development and in the pathogenesis of disease. The IRE1-XBP1/Hac1 pathway
is a major branch of the UPR that has been conserved from yeast to human. X-box
binding protein 1 (XBP1) is required for the differentiation of the highly
secretory plasma cells of the mammalian adaptive immune system, but recent work
also points to reciprocal interactions between the UPR and other aspects of
immunity and inflammation. We have been studying innate immunity in the nematode 
Caenorhabditis elegans, having established a principal role for a conserved PMK-1
p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway in mediating resistance to
microbial pathogens. Here we show that during C. elegans development, XBP-1 has
an essential role in protecting the host during activation of innate immunity.
Activation of the PMK-1-mediated response to infection with Pseudomonas
aeruginosa induces the XBP-1-dependent UPR. Whereas a loss-of-function xbp-1
mutant develops normally in the presence of relatively non-pathogenic bacteria,
infection of the xbp-1 mutant with P. aeruginosa leads to disruption of ER
morphology and larval lethality. Unexpectedly, the larval lethality phenotype on 
pathogenic P. aeruginosa is suppressed by loss of PMK-1-mediated immunity.
Furthermore, hyperactivation of PMK-1 causes larval lethality in the xbp-1 mutant
even in the absence of pathogenic bacteria. Our data establish innate immunity as
a physiologically relevant inducer of ER stress during C. elegans development and
indicate that an ancient, conserved role for XBP-1 may be to protect the host
organism from the detrimental effects of mounting an innate immune response to
microbes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08762 
PMCID: PMC2834299
PMID: 20182512  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1089-91. doi: 10.1038/nature08785.

Neural evidence for inequality-averse social preferences.

Tricomi E(1), Rangel A, Camerer CF, O'Doherty JP.

Author information: 
(1)Psychology Department, Rutgers University, Newark, New Jersey 07102, USA.

A popular hypothesis in the social sciences is that humans have social
preferences to reduce inequality in outcome distributions because it has a
negative impact on their experienced reward. Although there is a large body of
behavioural and anthropological evidence consistent with the predictions of these
theories, there is no direct neural evidence for the existence of
inequality-averse preferences. Such evidence would be especially useful because
some behaviours that are consistent with a dislike for unequal outcomes could
also be explained by concerns for social image or reciprocity, which do not
require a direct aversion towards inequality. Here we use functional MRI to test 
directly for the existence of inequality-averse social preferences in the human
brain. Inequality was created by recruiting pairs of subjects and giving one of
them a large monetary endowment. While both subjects evaluated further monetary
transfers from the experimenter to themselves and to the other participant, we
measured neural responses in the ventral striatum and ventromedial prefrontal
cortex, two areas that have been shown to be involved in the valuation of
monetary and primary rewards in both social and non-social contexts. Consistent
with inequality-averse models of social preferences, we find that activity in
these areas was more responsive to transfers to others than to self in the
'high-pay' subject, whereas the activity of the 'low-pay' subject showed the
opposite pattern. These results provide direct evidence for the validity of this 
class of models, and also show that the brain's reward circuitry is sensitive to 
both advantageous and disadvantageous inequality.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08785 
PMID: 20182511  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1071-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08790.

Electric currents couple spatially separated biogeochemical processes in marine
sediment.

Nielsen LP(1), Risgaard-Petersen N, Fossing H, Christensen PB, Sayama M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Aarhus University, Ny Munkegade 114,
DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark. biolpn@biology.au.dk

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1033-4.

Some bacteria are capable of extracellular electron transfer, thereby enabling
them to use electron acceptors and donors without direct cell contact. Beyond the
micrometre scale, however, no firm evidence has previously existed that spatially
segregated biogeochemical processes can be coupled by electric currents in
nature. Here we provide evidence that electric currents running through
defaunated sediment couple oxygen consumption at the sediment surface to
oxidation of hydrogen sulphide and organic carbon deep within the sediment.
Altering the oxygen concentration in the sea water overlying the sediment
resulted in a rapid (<1-h) change in the hydrogen sulphide concentration within
the sediment more than 12 mm below the oxic zone, a change explicable by
transmission of electrons but not by diffusion of molecules. Mass balances
indicated that more than 40% of total oxygen consumption in the sediment was
driven by electrons conducted from the anoxic zone. A distinct pH peak in the
oxic zone could be explained by electrochemical oxygen reduction, but not by any 
conventional sets of aerobic sediment processes. We suggest that the electric
current was conducted by bacterial nanowires combined with pyrite, soluble
electron shuttles and outer-membrane cytochromes. Electrical communication
between distant chemical and biological processes in nature adds a new dimension 
to our understanding of biogeochemistry and microbial ecology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08790 
PMID: 20182510  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1066-70. doi: 10.1038/nature08831.

Tropical cyclones and permanent El Niño in the early Pliocene epoch.

Fedorov AV(1), Brierley CM, Emanuel K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 
06520, USA. alexey.fedorov@yale.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1032-3.

Tropical cyclones (also known as hurricanes and typhoons) are now believed to be 
an important component of the Earth's climate system. In particular, by
vigorously mixing the upper ocean, they can affect the ocean's heat uptake,
poleward heat transport, and hence global temperatures. Changes in the
distribution and frequency of tropical cyclones could therefore become an
important element of the climate response to global warming. A potential analogue
to modern greenhouse conditions, the climate of the early Pliocene epoch
(approximately 5 to 3 million years ago) can provide important clues to this
response. Here we describe a positive feedback between hurricanes and the
upper-ocean circulation in the tropical Pacific Ocean that may have been
essential for maintaining warm, El Niño-like conditions during the early
Pliocene. This feedback is based on the ability of hurricanes to warm water
parcels that travel towards the Equator at shallow depths and then resurface in
the eastern equatorial Pacific as part of the ocean's wind-driven circulation. In
the present climate, very few hurricane tracks intersect the parcel trajectories;
consequently, there is little heat exchange between waters at such depths and the
surface. More frequent and/or stronger hurricanes in the central Pacific imply
greater heating of the parcels, warmer temperatures in the eastern equatorial
Pacific, warmer tropics and, in turn, even more hurricanes. Using a downscaling
hurricane model, we show dramatic shifts in the tropical cyclone distribution for
the early Pliocene that favour this feedback. Further calculations with a coupled
climate model support our conclusions. The proposed feedback should be relevant
to past equable climates and potentially to contemporary climate change.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08831 
PMID: 20182509  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1061-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08777.

Simultaneous phase and size control of upconversion nanocrystals through
lanthanide doping.

Wang F(1), Han Y, Lim CS, Lu Y, Wang J, Xu J, Chen H, Zhang C, Hong M, Liu X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, National University of Singapore, 117543, Singapore.

Doping is a widely applied technological process in materials science that
involves incorporating atoms or ions of appropriate elements into host lattices
to yield hybrid materials with desirable properties and functions. For
nanocrystalline materials, doping is of fundamental importance in stabilizing a
specific crystallographic phase, modifying electronic properties, modulating
magnetism as well as tuning emission properties. Here we describe a material
system in which doping influences the growth process to give simultaneous control
over the crystallographic phase, size and optical emission properties of the
resulting nanocrystals. We show that NaYF(4) nanocrystals can be rationally tuned
in size (down to ten nanometres), phase (cubic or hexagonal) and upconversion
emission colour (green to blue) through use of trivalent lanthanide dopant ions
introduced at precisely defined concentrations. We use first-principles
calculations to confirm that the influence of lanthanide doping on crystal phase 
and size arises from a strong dependence on the size and dipole polarizability of
the substitutional dopant ion. Our results suggest that the doping-induced
structural and size transition, demonstrated here in NaYF(4) upconversion
nanocrystals, could be extended to other lanthanide-doped nanocrystal systems for
applications ranging from luminescent biological labels to volumetric
three-dimensional displays.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08777 
PMID: 20182508  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1057-60. doi: 10.1038/nature08814.

Exploring the thermodynamics of a universal Fermi gas.

Nascimbène S(1), Navon N, Jiang KJ, Chevy F, Salomon C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire Kastler Brossel, CNRS, UPMC, Ecole Normale Supérieure, 24 rue
Lhomond, 75231 Paris, France. sylvain.nascimbene@ens.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1029-31.

One of the greatest challenges in modern physics is to understand the behaviour
of an ensemble of strongly interacting particles. A class of quantum many-body
systems (such as neutron star matter and cold Fermi gases) share the same
universal thermodynamic properties when interactions reach the maximum effective 
value allowed by quantum mechanics, the so-called unitary limit. This makes it
possible in principle to simulate some astrophysical phenomena inside the highly 
controlled environment of an atomic physics laboratory. Previous work on the
thermodynamics of a two-component Fermi gas led to thermodynamic quantities
averaged over the trap, making comparisons with many-body theories developed for 
uniform gases difficult. Here we develop a general experimental method that
yields the equation of state of a uniform gas, as well as enabling a detailed
comparison with existing theories. The precision of our equation of state leads
to new physical insights into the unitary gas. For the unpolarized gas, we show
that the low-temperature thermodynamics of the strongly interacting normal phase 
is well described by Fermi liquid theory, and we localize the superfluid
transition. For a spin-polarized system, our equation of state at zero
temperature has a 2 per cent accuracy and extends work on the phase diagram to a 
new regime of precision. We show in particular that, despite strong interactions,
the normal phase behaves as a mixture of two ideal gases: a Fermi gas of bare
majority atoms and a non-interacting gas of dressed quasi-particles, the
fermionic polarons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08814 
PMID: 20182507 


780. Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1054-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08715.

WASP-12b as a prolate, inflated and disrupting planet from tidal dissipation.

Li SL(1), Miller N, Lin DN, Fortney JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Kavli Institute for Astronomy and Astrophysics, Peking University, Beijing
100871, China.

The class of exotic Jupiter-mass planets that orbit very close to their parent
stars were not explicitly expected before their discovery. The recently
discovered transiting planet WASP-12b has a mass M = 1.4 +/- 0.1 Jupiter masses
(M(J)), a mean orbital distance of only 3.1 stellar radii (meaning it is subject 
to intense tidal forces), and a period of 1.1 days. Its radius 1.79 +/- 0.09R(J) 
is unexpectedly large and its orbital eccentricity 0.049 +/- 0.015 is even more
surprising because such close orbits are usually quickly circularized. Here we
report an analysis of its properties, which reveals that the planet is losing
mass to its host star at a rate of about 10(-7)M(J) per year. The planet's
surface is distorted by the star's gravity and the light curve produced by its
prolate shape will differ by about ten per cent from that of a spherical planet. 
We conclude that dissipation of the star's tidal perturbation in the planet's
convective envelope provides the energy source for its large volume. We predict
up to 10 mJy CO band-head (2.292 mum) emission from a tenuous disk around the
host star, made up of tidally stripped planetary gas. It may also contain a
detectable resonant super-Earth, as a hypothetical perturber that continually
stirs up WASP-12b's eccentricity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08715 
PMID: 20182506 


781. Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1048-53. doi: 10.1038/nature08787.

Orm family proteins mediate sphingolipid homeostasis.

Breslow DK(1), Collins SR, Bodenmiller B, Aebersold R, Simons K, Shevchenko A,
Ejsing CS, Weissman JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology, University of California,
San Francisco, 1700 4th Street, San Francisco, California 94158, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1028-9.

Despite the essential roles of sphingolipids both as structural components of
membranes and critical signalling molecules, we have a limited understanding of
how cells sense and regulate their levels. Here we reveal the function in
sphingolipid metabolism of the ORM genes (known as ORMDL genes in humans)-a
conserved gene family that includes ORMDL3, which has recently been identified as
a potential risk factor for childhood asthma. Starting from an unbiased
functional genomic approach in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we identify Orm proteins
as negative regulators of sphingolipid synthesis that form a conserved complex
with serine palmitoyltransferase, the first and rate-limiting enzyme in
sphingolipid production. We also define a regulatory pathway in which
phosphorylation of Orm proteins relieves their inhibitory activity when
sphingolipid production is disrupted. Changes in ORM gene expression or mutations
to their phosphorylation sites cause dysregulation of sphingolipid metabolism.
Our work identifies the Orm proteins as critical mediators of sphingolipid
homeostasis and raises the possibility that sphingolipid misregulation
contributes to the development of childhood asthma.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08787 
PMCID: PMC2877384
PMID: 20182505  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):E10-1; discussion E11. doi: 10.1038/nature08805.

Location of corneal epithelial stem cells.

Sun TT(1), Tseng SC, Lavker RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, 
New York 10016, USA. sunt01@nyumc.org

Comment on
    Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):250-4.

The longstanding concept that corneal epithelial stem cells reside mainly in the 
limbus is supported by the absence of major corneal epithelial differentiation
markers, that is, K3 and K12 keratins, in limbal basal cells (these markers are
expressed, however, in corneal basal cells, thus distinguishing the mode of
keratin expression in corneal epithelium from that of all other stratified
epithelia), the centripetal migration of corneal epithelial cells, the exclusive 
location of slow-cycling cells in the limbal basal layer, the superior in vitro
proliferative potential of limbal epithelial cells, and the transplanted limbal
cells' ability to reconstitute corneal epithelium in vivo (reviewed in refs 1-4).
Moreover, previous data indicate that corneal and conjunctival epithelia
represent two separate cell lineages (reviewed in refs 1-4). Majo et al.
suggested, however, that corneal and conjunctival epithelia are equipotent, and
that identical oligopotent stem cells are present throughout the corneal, limbal 
and conjunctival epithelia. We point out here that these suggestions are
inconsistent with many known growth, differentiation and cell migration
properties of the anterior ocular epithelia.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08805 
PMID: 20182462  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1079-83. doi: 10.1038/nature08742. Epub 2010 Feb
10.

Arthropod relationships revealed by phylogenomic analysis of nuclear
protein-coding sequences.

Regier JC(1), Shultz JW, Zwick A, Hussey A, Ball B, Wetzer R, Martin JW,
Cunningham CW.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Biosystems Research, University of Maryland Biotechnology
Institute, College Park, Maryland 20742, USA.

The remarkable antiquity, diversity and ecological significance of arthropods
have inspired numerous attempts to resolve their deep phylogenetic history, but
the results of two decades of intensive molecular phylogenetics have been mixed. 
The discovery that terrestrial insects (Hexapoda) are more closely related to
aquatic Crustacea than to the terrestrial centipedes and millipedes (Myriapoda)
was an early, if exceptional, success. More typically, analyses based on limited 
samples of taxa and genes have generated results that are inconsistent, weakly
supported and highly sensitive to analytical conditions. Here we present strongly
supported results from likelihood, Bayesian and parsimony analyses of over 41
kilobases of aligned DNA sequence from 62 single-copy nuclear protein-coding
genes from 75 arthropod species. These species represent every major arthropod
lineage, plus five species of tardigrades and onychophorans as outgroups. Our
results strongly support Pancrustacea (Hexapoda plus Crustacea) but also strongly
favour the traditional morphology-based Mandibulata (Myriapoda plus Pancrustacea)
over the molecule-based Paradoxopoda (Myriapoda plus Chelicerata). In addition to
Hexapoda, Pancrustacea includes three major extant lineages of 'crustaceans',
each spanning a significant range of morphological disparity. These are
Oligostraca (ostracods, mystacocarids, branchiurans and pentastomids),
Vericrustacea (malacostracans, thecostracans, copepods and branchiopods) and
Xenocarida (cephalocarids and remipedes). Finally, within Pancrustacea we
identify Xenocarida as the long-sought sister group to the Hexapoda, a result
confirming that 'crustaceans' are not monophyletic. These results provide a
statistically well-supported phylogenetic framework for the largest animal phylum
and represent a step towards ending the often-heated, century-long debate on
arthropod relationships.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08742 
PMID: 20147900  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1096-100. doi: 10.1038/nature08735. Epub 2010 Feb
7.

Tbx3 improves the germ-line competency of induced pluripotent stem cells.

Han J(1), Yuan P, Yang H, Zhang J, Soh BS, Li P, Lim SL, Cao S, Tay J, Orlov YL, 
Lufkin T, Ng HH, Tam WL, Lim B.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell and Developmental Biology, Genome Institute of Singapore, 138672,
Singapore.

Induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells can be obtained by the introduction of
defined factors into somatic cells. The combination of Oct4 (also known as
Pou5f1), Sox2 and Klf4 (which we term OSK) constitutes the minimal requirement
for generating iPS cells from mouse embryonic fibroblasts. These cells are
thought to resemble embryonic stem cells (ESCs) on the basis of global gene
expression analyses; however, few studies have tested the ability and efficiency 
of iPS cells to contribute to chimaerism, colonization of germ tissues, and most 
importantly, germ-line transmission and live birth from iPS cells produced by
tetraploid complementation. Using genomic analyses of ESC genes that have roles
in pluripotency and fusion-mediated somatic cell reprogramming, here we show that
the transcription factor Tbx3 significantly improves the quality of iPS cells.
iPS cells generated with OSK and Tbx3 (OSKT) are superior in both germ-cell
contribution to the gonads and germ-line transmission frequency. However, global 
gene expression profiling could not distinguish between OSK and OSKT iPS cells.
Genome-wide chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing analysis of Tbx3-binding
sites in ESCs suggests that Tbx3 regulates pluripotency-associated and
reprogramming factors, in addition to sharing many common downstream regulatory
targets with Oct4, Sox2, Nanog and Smad1. This study underscores the intrinsic
qualitative differences between iPS cells generated by different methods, and
highlights the need to rigorously characterize iPS cells beyond in vitro studies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08735 
PMCID: PMC2901797
PMID: 20139965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1084-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08744. Epub 2010 Jan 31.

Ancient animal microRNAs and the evolution of tissue identity.

Christodoulou F(1), Raible F, Tomer R, Simakov O, Trachana K, Klaus S, Snyman H, 
Hannon GJ, Bork P, Arendt D.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Biology Unit, European Molecular Biology Laboratory, D-69117
Heidelberg, Germany.

The spectacular escalation in complexity in early bilaterian evolution correlates
with a strong increase in the number of microRNAs. To explore the link between
the birth of ancient microRNAs and body plan evolution, we set out to determine
the ancient sites of activity of conserved bilaterian microRNA families in a
comparative approach. We reason that any specific localization shared between
protostomes and deuterostomes (the two major superphyla of bilaterian animals)
should probably reflect an ancient specificity of that microRNA in their last
common ancestor. Here, we investigate the expression of conserved bilaterian
microRNAs in Platynereis dumerilii, a protostome retaining ancestral bilaterian
features, in Capitella, another marine annelid, in the sea urchin
Strongylocentrotus, a deuterostome, and in sea anemone Nematostella, representing
an outgroup to the bilaterians. Our comparative data indicate that the oldest
known animal microRNA, miR-100, and the related miR-125 and let-7 were initially 
active in neurosecretory cells located around the mouth. Other sets of ancient
microRNAs were first present in locomotor ciliated cells, specific brain centres,
or, more broadly, one of four major organ systems: central nervous system,
sensory tissue, musculature and gut. These findings reveal that microRNA
evolution and the establishment of tissue identities were closely coupled in
bilaterian evolution. Also, they outline a minimum set of cell types and tissues 
that existed in the protostome-deuterostome ancestor.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08744 
PMCID: PMC2981144
PMID: 20118916  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1075-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08740. Epub 2010 Jan 27.

Fossilized melanosomes and the colour of Cretaceous dinosaurs and birds.

Zhang F(1), Kearns SL, Orr PJ, Benton MJ, Zhou Z, Johnson D, Xu X, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Evolutionary Systematics of Vertebrates, Institute of
Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, PO
Box 643, Beijing 100044, China.

Spectacular fossils from the Early Cretaceous Jehol Group of northeastern China
have greatly expanded our knowledge of the diversity and palaeobiology of
dinosaurs and early birds, and contributed to our understanding of the origin of 
birds, of flight, and of feathers. Pennaceous (vaned) feathers and integumentary 
filaments are preserved in birds and non-avian theropod dinosaurs, but little is 
known of their microstructure. Here we report that melanosomes (colour-bearing
organelles) are not only preserved in the pennaceous feathers of early birds, but
also in an identical manner in integumentary filaments of non-avian dinosaurs,
thus refuting recent claims that the filaments are partially decayed dermal
collagen fibres. Examples of both eumelanosomes and phaeomelanosomes have been
identified, and they are often preserved in life position within the structure of
partially degraded feathers and filaments. Furthermore, the data here provide
empirical evidence for reconstructing the colours and colour patterning of these 
extinct birds and theropod dinosaurs: for example, the dark-coloured stripes on
the tail of the theropod dinosaur Sinosauropteryx can reasonably be inferred to
have exhibited chestnut to reddish-brown tones.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08740 
PMID: 20107440  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1035-41. doi: 10.1038/nature08797. Epub 2010 Jan
27.

Direct conversion of fibroblasts to functional neurons by defined factors.

Vierbuchen T(1), Ostermeier A, Pang ZP, Kokubu Y, Südhof TC, Wernig M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Department of
Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, 1050 Arastradero Road, Palo
Alto, California 94304, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2010 May;20(5):502-3.
    Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1031-2.

Cellular differentiation and lineage commitment are considered to be robust and
irreversible processes during development. Recent work has shown that mouse and
human fibroblasts can be reprogrammed to a pluripotent state with a combination
of four transcription factors. This raised the question of whether transcription 
factors could directly induce other defined somatic cell fates, and not only an
undifferentiated state. We hypothesized that combinatorial expression of
neural-lineage-specific transcription factors could directly convert fibroblasts 
into neurons. Starting from a pool of nineteen candidate genes, we identified a
combination of only three factors, Ascl1, Brn2 (also called Pou3f2) and Myt1l,
that suffice to rapidly and efficiently convert mouse embryonic and postnatal
fibroblasts into functional neurons in vitro. These induced neuronal (iN) cells
express multiple neuron-specific proteins, generate action potentials and form
functional synapses. Generation of iN cells from non-neural lineages could have
important implications for studies of neural development, neurological disease
modelling and regenerative medicine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08797 
PMCID: PMC2829121
PMID: 20107439  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1101-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08829.

Genome-wide erasure of DNA methylation in mouse primordial germ cells is affected
by AID deficiency.

Popp C(1), Dean W, Feng S, Cokus SJ, Andrews S, Pellegrini M, Jacobsen SE, Reik
W.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Developmental Genetics and Imprinting, The Babraham Institute,
Cambridge, UK.

Epigenetic reprogramming including demethylation of DNA occurs in mammalian
primordial germ cells (PGCs) and in early embryos, and is important for the
erasure of imprints and epimutations, and the return to pluripotency. The extent 
of this reprogramming and its molecular mechanisms are poorly understood. We
previously showed that the cytidine deaminases AID and APOBEC1 can deaminate
5-methylcytosine in vitro and in Escherichia coli, and in the mouse are expressed
in tissues in which demethylation occurs. Here we profiled DNA methylation
throughout the genome by unbiased bisulphite next generation sequencing in
wild-type and AID-deficient mouse PGCs at embryonic day (E)13.5. Wild-type PGCs
revealed marked genome-wide erasure of methylation to a level below that of
methylation deficient (Np95(-/-), also called Uhrf1(-/-)) embryonic stem cells,
with female PGCs being less methylated than male ones. By contrast, AID-deficient
PGCs were up to three times more methylated than wild-type ones; this substantial
difference occurred throughout the genome, with introns, intergenic regions and
transposons being relatively more methylated than exons. Relative
hypermethylation in AID-deficient PGCs was confirmed by analysis of individual
loci in the genome. Our results reveal that erasure of DNA methylation in the
germ line is a global process, hence limiting the potential for transgenerational
epigenetic inheritance. AID deficiency interferes with genome-wide erasure of DNA
methylation patterns, indicating that AID has a critical function in epigenetic
reprogramming and potentially in restricting the inheritance of epimutations in
mammals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08829 
PMCID: PMC2965733
PMID: 20098412  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1042-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08752.

Reprogramming towards pluripotency requires AID-dependent DNA demethylation.

Bhutani N(1), Brady JJ, Damian M, Sacco A, Corbel SY, Blau HM.

Author information: 
(1)Baxter Laboratory for Stem Cell Biology, Institute for Stem Cell Biology and
Regenerative Medicine, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305-5175, USA.

Reprogramming of somatic cell nuclei to yield induced pluripotent stem (iPS)
cells makes possible derivation of patient-specific stem cells for regenerative
medicine. However, iPS cell generation is asynchronous and slow (2-3 weeks), the 
frequency is low (<0.1%), and DNA demethylation constitutes a bottleneck. To
determine regulatory mechanisms involved in reprogramming, we generated
interspecies heterokaryons (fused mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells and human
fibroblasts) that induce reprogramming synchronously, frequently and fast. Here
we show that reprogramming towards pluripotency in single heterokaryons is
initiated without cell division or DNA replication, rapidly (1 day) and
efficiently (70%). Short interfering RNA (siRNA)-mediated knockdown showed that
activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID, also known as AICDA) is required for 
promoter demethylation and induction of OCT4 (also known as POU5F1) and NANOG
gene expression. AID protein bound silent methylated OCT4 and NANOG promoters in 
fibroblasts, but not active demethylated promoters in ES cells. These data
provide new evidence that mammalian AID is required for active DNA demethylation 
and initiation of nuclear reprogramming towards pluripotency in human somatic
cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08752 
PMCID: PMC2906123
PMID: 20027182  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):963-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08746.

TCR-peptide-MHC interactions in situ show accelerated kinetics and increased
affinity.

Huppa JB(1), Axmann M, Mörtelmaier MA, Lillemeier BF, Newell EW, Brameshuber M,
Klein LO, Schütz GJ, Davis MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Stanford School of Medicine,
California 94305-5323, USA.

The recognition of foreign antigens by T lymphocytes is essential to most
adaptive immune responses. It is driven by specific T-cell antigen receptors
(TCRs) binding to antigenic peptide-major histocompatibility complex (pMHC)
molecules on other cells. If productive, these interactions promote the formation
of an immunological synapse. Here we show that synaptic TCR-pMHC binding dynamics
differ significantly from TCR-pMHC binding in solution. We used single-molecule
microscopy and fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) between
fluorescently tagged TCRs and their cognate pMHC ligands to measure the kinetics 
of TCR-pMHC binding in situ. When compared with solution measurements, the
dissociation of this complex was increased significantly (4-12-fold). Disruption 
of actin polymers reversed this effect, indicating that cytoskeletal dynamics
destabilize this interaction directly or indirectly. Nevertheless, TCR affinity
for pMHC was significantly elevated as the result of a large (about 100-fold)
increase in the association rate, a likely consequence of complementary molecular
orientation and clustering. In helper T cells, the CD4 molecule has been proposed
to bind cooperatively with the TCR to the same pMHC complex. However, CD4
blockade had no effect on the synaptic TCR affinity, nor did it destabilize
TCR-pMHC complexes, indicating that the TCR binds pMHC independently of CD4.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08746 
PMCID: PMC3273423
PMID: 20164930  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):953-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08763.

Rere controls retinoic acid signalling and somite bilateral symmetry.

Vilhais-Neto GC(1), Maruhashi M, Smith KT, Vasseur-Cognet M, Peterson AS, Workman
JL, Pourquié O.

Author information: 
(1)Stowers Institute for Medical Research, Missouri 64110, USA.

One of the most notable features of the vertebrate body plan organization is its 
bilateral symmetry, evident at the level of vertebrae and skeletal muscles. Here 
we show that a mutation in Rere (also known as atrophin2) leads to the formation 
of asymmetrical somites in mouse embryos, similar to embryos deprived of retinoic
acid. Furthermore, we also demonstrate that Rere controls retinoic acid
signalling, which is required to maintain somite symmetry by interacting with
Fgf8 in the left-right signalling pathway. Rere forms a complex with Nr2f2, p300 
(also known as Ep300) and a retinoic acid receptor, which is recruited to the
retinoic acid regulatory element of retinoic acid targets, such as the Rarb
promoter. Furthermore, the knockdown of Nr2f2 and/or Rere decreases retinoic acid
signalling, suggesting that this complex is required to promote transcriptional
activation of retinoic acid targets. The asymmetrical expression of Nr2f2 in the 
presomitic mesoderm overlaps with the asymmetry of the retinoic acid signalling
response, supporting its implication in the control of somitic symmetry.
Misregulation of this mechanism could be involved in symmetry defects of the
human spine, such as those observed in patients with scoliosis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08763 
PMID: 20164929  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):948-52. doi: 10.1038/nature08759.

Rapid spine stabilization and synaptic enhancement at the onset of behavioural
learning.

Roberts TF(1), Tschida KA, Klein ME, Mooney R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North
Carolina 27710, USA.

Behavioural learning depends on the brain's capacity to respond to instructive
experience and is often enhanced during a juvenile sensitive period. How
instructive experience acts on the juvenile brain to trigger behavioural learning
remains unknown. In vitro studies show that forms of synaptic strengthening
thought to underlie learning are accompanied by an increase in the stability,
number and size of dendritic spines, which are the major sites of excitatory
synaptic transmission in the vertebrate brain. In vivo imaging studies in sensory
cortical regions reveal that these structural features can be affected by
disrupting sensory experience and that spine turnover increases during sensitive 
periods for sensory map formation. These observations support two hypotheses:
first, the increased capacity for behavioural learning during a sensitive period 
is associated with enhanced spine dynamics on sensorimotor neurons important for 
the learned behaviour; second, instructive experience rapidly stabilizes and
strengthens these dynamic spines. Here we report a test of these hypotheses using
two-photon in vivo imaging to measure spine dynamics in zebra finches, which
learn to sing by imitating a tutor song during a juvenile sensitive period. Spine
dynamics were measured in the forebrain nucleus HVC, the proximal site where
auditory information merges with an explicit song motor representation,
immediately before and after juvenile finches first experienced tutor song.
Higher levels of spine turnover before tutoring correlated with a greater
capacity for subsequent song imitation. In juveniles with high levels of spine
turnover, hearing a tutor song led to the rapid ( approximately 24-h)
stabilization, accumulation and enlargement of dendritic spines in HVC. Moreover,
in vivo intracellular recordings made immediately before and after the first day 
of tutoring revealed robust enhancement of synaptic activity in HVC. These
findings suggest that behavioural learning results when instructive experience is
able to rapidly stabilize and strengthen synapses on sensorimotor neurons
important for the control of the learned behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08759 
PMCID: PMC2918377
PMID: 20164928  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):943-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08795.

Complete Khoisan and Bantu genomes from southern Africa.

Schuster SC(1), Miller W, Ratan A, Tomsho LP, Giardine B, Kasson LR, Harris RS,
Petersen DC, Zhao F, Qi J, Alkan C, Kidd JM, Sun Y, Drautz DI, Bouffard P, Muzny 
DM, Reid JG, Nazareth LV, Wang Q, Burhans R, Riemer C, Wittekindt NE, Moorjani P,
Tindall EA, Danko CG, Teo WS, Buboltz AM, Zhang Z, Ma Q, Oosthuysen A, Steenkamp 
AW, Oostuisen H, Venter P, Gajewski J, Zhang Y, Pugh BF, Makova KD, Nekrutenko A,
Mardis ER, Patterson N, Pringle TH, Chiaromonte F, Mullikin JC, Eichler EE,
Hardison RC, Gibbs RA, Harkins TT, Hayes VM.

Author information: 
(1)Pennsylvania State University, Center for Comparative Genomics and
Bioinformatics, 310 Wartik Lab, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.
scs@bx.psu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):857.
    Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):487; author reply 487.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2010 Mar;11(3):170.
    Nature. 2017 Mar 20;543(7646):475-476.

The genetic structure of the indigenous hunter-gatherer peoples of southern
Africa, the oldest known lineage of modern human, is important for understanding 
human diversity. Studies based on mitochondrial and small sets of nuclear markers
have shown that these hunter-gatherers, known as Khoisan, San, or Bushmen, are
genetically divergent from other humans. However, until now, fully sequenced
human genomes have been limited to recently diverged populations. Here we present
the complete genome sequences of an indigenous hunter-gatherer from the Kalahari 
Desert and a Bantu from southern Africa, as well as protein-coding regions from
an additional three hunter-gatherers from disparate regions of the Kalahari. We
characterize the extent of whole-genome and exome diversity among the five men,
reporting 1.3 million novel DNA differences genome-wide, including 13,146 novel
amino acid variants. In terms of nucleotide substitutions, the Bushmen seem to
be, on average, more different from each other than, for example, a European and 
an Asian. Observed genomic differences between the hunter-gatherers and others
may help to pinpoint genetic adaptations to an agricultural lifestyle. Adding the
described variants to current databases will facilitate inclusion of southern
Africans in medical research efforts, particularly when family and medical
histories can be correlated with genome-wide data.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08795 
PMCID: PMC3890430
PMID: 20164927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):930-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08824.

Upside-down differentiation and generation of a 'primordial' lower mantle.

Lee CT(1), Luffi P, Höink T, Li J, Dasgupta R, Hernlund J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Science, MS-126, Rice University, 6100 Main Street,
Houston, Texas 77005, USA. ctlee@rice.edu

Except for the first 50-100 million years or so of the Earth's history, when most
of the mantle may have been subjected to melting, the differentiation of Earth's 
silicate mantle has been controlled by solid-state convection. As the mantle
upwells and decompresses across its solidus, it partially melts. These
low-density melts rise to the surface and form the continental and oceanic
crusts, driving the differentiation of the silicate part of the Earth. Because
many trace elements, such as heat-producing U, Th and K, as well as the noble
gases, preferentially partition into melts (here referred to as incompatible
elements), melt extraction concentrates these elements into the crust (or
atmosphere in the case of noble gases), where nearly half of the Earth's budget
of these elements now resides. In contrast, the upper mantle, as sampled by
mid-ocean ridge basalts, is highly depleted in incompatible elements, suggesting 
a complementary relationship with the crust. Mass balance arguments require that 
the other half of these incompatible elements be hidden in the Earth's interior. 
Hypotheses abound for the origin of this hidden reservoir. The most widely held
view has been that this hidden reservoir represents primordial material never
processed by melting or degassing. Here, we suggest that a necessary by-product
of whole-mantle convection during the Earth's first billion years is deep and hot
melting, resulting in the generation of dense liquids that crystallized and sank 
into the lower mantle. These sunken lithologies would have 'primordial' chemical 
signatures despite a non-primordial origin.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08824 
PMID: 20164926 


795. Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):926-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08776.

A precision measurement of the gravitational redshift by the interference of
matter waves.

Müller H(1), Peters A, Chu S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, 366 Le Conte Hall MS 7300, University of California,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA. hm@berkeley.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):E1; discussion E2.

One of the central predictions of metric theories of gravity, such as general
relativity, is that a clock in a gravitational potential U will run more slowly
by a factor of 1 + U/c(2), where c is the velocity of light, as compared to a
similar clock outside the potential. This effect, known as gravitational
redshift, is important to the operation of the global positioning system,
timekeeping and future experiments with ultra-precise, space-based clocks (such
as searches for variations in fundamental constants). The gravitational redshift 
has been measured using clocks on a tower, an aircraft and a rocket, currently
reaching an accuracy of 7 x 10(-5). Here we show that laboratory experiments
based on quantum interference of atoms enable a much more precise measurement,
yielding an accuracy of 7 x 10(-9). Our result supports the view that gravity is 
a manifestation of space-time curvature, an underlying principle of general
relativity that has come under scrutiny in connection with the search for a
theory of quantum gravity. Improving the redshift measurement is particularly
important because this test has been the least accurate among the experiments
that are required to support curved space-time theories.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08776 
PMID: 20164925 


796. Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):924-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08685.

An upper limit on the contribution of accreting white dwarfs to the type Ia
supernova rate.

Gilfanov M(1), Bogdán A.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institut für Astrophysik, Karl-Schwarzschild-Strasse 1, 85741
Garching, Germany. gilfanov@mpa-garching.mpg.de

There is wide agreement that type Ia supernovae (used as standard candles for
cosmology) are associated with the thermonuclear explosions of white dwarf stars.
The nuclear runaway that leads to the explosion could start in a white dwarf
gradually accumulating matter from a companion star until it reaches the
Chandrasekhar limit, or could be triggered by the merger of two white dwarfs in a
compact binary system. The X-ray signatures of these two possible paths are very 
different. Whereas no strong electromagnetic emission is expected in the merger
scenario until shortly before the supernova, the white dwarf accreting material
from the normal star becomes a source of copious X-rays for about 10(7) years
before the explosion. This offers a means of determining which path dominates.
Here we report that the observed X-ray flux from six nearby elliptical galaxies
and galaxy bulges is a factor of approximately 30-50 less than predicted in the
accretion scenario, based upon an estimate of the supernova rate from their
K-band luminosities. We conclude that no more than about five per cent of type Ia
supernovae in early-type galaxies can be produced by white dwarfs in accreting
binary systems, unless their progenitors are much younger than the bulk of the
stellar population in these galaxies, or explosions of sub-Chandrasekhar white
dwarfs make a significant contribution to the supernova rate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08685 
PMID: 20164924 


797. Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):919-23. doi: 10.1038/nature08841.

A change in the optical polarization associated with a gamma-ray flare in the
blazar 3C 279.

Fermi-LAT Collaboration; 3C 279 Multi-band Campaign.

Collaborators: Abdo AA, Ackermann M, Ajello M, Axelsson M, Baldini L, Ballet J,
Barbiellini G, Bastieri D, Baughman BM, Bechtol K, Bellazzini R, Berenji B,
Blandford RD, Bloom ED, Bock DC, Bogart JR, Bonamente E, Borgland AW, Bouvier A, 
Bregeon J, Brez A, Brigida M, Bruel P, Burnett TH, Buson S, Caliandro GA, Cameron
RA, Caraveo PA, Casandjian JM, Cavazzuti E, Cecchi C, Celik O, Chekhtman A,
Cheung CC, Chiang J, Ciprini S, Claus R, Cohen-Tanugi J, Collmar W, Cominsky LR, 
Conrad J, Corbel S, Corbet R, Costamante L, Cutini S, Dermer CD, de Angelis A, de
Palma F, Digel SW, do Couto e Silva E, Drell PS, Dubois R, Dumora D, Farnier C,
Favuzzi C, Fegan SJ, Ferrara EC, Focke WB, Fortin P, Frailis M, Fuhrmann L,
Fukazawa Y, Funk S, Fusco P, Gargano F, Gasparrini D, Gehrels N, Germani S,
Giebels B, Giglietto N, Giommi P, Giordano F, Giroletti M, Glanzman T, Godfrey G,
Grenier IA, Grove JE, Guillemot L, Guiriec S, Hanabata Y, Harding AK, Hayashida
M, Hays E, Horan D, Hughes RE, Iafrate G, Itoh R, Jackson MS, Jóhannesson G,
Johnson AS, Johnson WN, Kadler M, Kamae T, Katagiri H, Kataoka J, Kawai N, Kerr
M, Knödlseder J, Kocian ML, Kuss M, Lande J, Larsson S, Latronico L,
Lemoine-Goumard M, Longo F, Loparco F, Lott B, Lovellette MN, Lubrano P, Macquart
J, Madejski GM, Makeev A, Max-Moerbeck W, Mazziotta MN, McConville W, McEnery JE,
McGlynn S, Meurer C, Michelson PF, Mitthumsiri W, Mizuno T, Moiseev AA, Monte C, 
Monzani ME, Morselli A, Moskalenko IV, Murgia S, Nestoras I, Nolan PL, Norris JP,
Nuss E, Ohsugi T, Okumura A, Omodei N, Orlando E, Ormes JF, Paneque D, Panetta
JH, Parent D, Pavlidou V, Pearson TJ, Pelassa V, Pepe M, Pesce-Rollins M, Piron
F, Porter TA, Rainò S, Rando R, Razzano M, Readhead A, Reimer A, Reimer O,
Reposeur T, Reyes LC, Richards JL, Rochester LS, Rodriguez AY, Roth M, Ryde F,
Sadrozinski HF, Sanchez D, Sander A, Saz Parkinson PM, Scargle JD, Sgrò C, Shaw
MS, Shrader C, Siskind EJ, Smith DA, Smith PD, Spandre G, Spinelli P, Stawarz L, 
Stevenson M, Strickman MS, Suson DJ, Tajima H, Takahashi H, Takahashi T, Tanaka
T, Taylor GB, Thayer JB, Thayer JG, Thompson DJ, Tibaldo L, Torres DF, Tosti G,
Tramacere A, Uchiyama Y, Usher TL, Vasileiou V, Vilchez N, Vitale V, Waite AP,
Wang P, Wehrle AE, Winer BL, Wood KS, Ylinen T, Zensus JA, Ziegler M, Uemura M,
Ikejiri Y, Kawabata KS, Kino M, Sakimoto K, Sasada M, Sato S, Yamanaka M, Villata
M, Raiteri CM, Agudo I, Aller HD, Aller MF, Angelakis E, Arkharov AA, Bach U,
Benítez E, Berdyugin A, Blinov DA, Boettcher M, Buemi CS, Chen WP, Dolci M,
Dultzin D, Efimova NV, Gurwell MA, Gusbar C, Gómez JL, Heidt J, Hiriart D,
Hovatta T, Jorstad SG, Konstantinova TS, Kopatskaya EN, Koptelova E, Kurtanidze
OM, Lahteenmaki A, Larionov VM, Larionova EG, Leto P, Lin HC, Lindfors E,
Marscher AP, McHardy IM, Melnichuk DA, Mommert M, Nilsson K, Di Paola A, Reinthal
R, Richter GM, Roca-Sogorb M, Roustazadeh P, Sigua LA, Takalo LO, Tornikoski M,
Trigilio C, Troitsky IS, Umana G, Villforth C, Grainge K, Moderski R, Nalewajko
K, Sikora M.

It is widely accepted that strong and variable radiation detected over all
accessible energy bands in a number of active galaxies arises from a
relativistic, Doppler-boosted jet pointing close to our line of sight. The size
of the emitting zone and the location of this region relative to the central
supermassive black hole are, however, poorly known, with estimates ranging from
light-hours to a light-year or more. Here we report the coincidence of a gamma
(gamma)-ray flare with a dramatic change of optical polarization angle. This
provides evidence for co-spatiality of optical and gamma-ray emission regions and
indicates a highly ordered jet magnetic field. The results also require a
non-axisymmetric structure of the emission zone, implying a curved trajectory for
the emitting material within the jet, with the dissipation region located at a
considerable distance from the black hole, at about 10(5) gravitational radii.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08841 
PMID: 20164923 


798. Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):913-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08781.

Variability in gene expression underlies incomplete penetrance.

Raj A(1), Rifkin SA, Andersen E, van Oudenaarden A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):891-2.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2010 Apr;11(4):238.

The phenotypic differences between individual organisms can often be ascribed to 
underlying genetic and environmental variation. However, even genetically
identical organisms in homogeneous environments vary, indicating that randomness 
in developmental processes such as gene expression may also generate diversity.
To examine the consequences of gene expression variability in multicellular
organisms, we studied intestinal specification in the nematode Caenorhabditis
elegans in which wild-type cell fate is invariant and controlled by a small
transcriptional network. Mutations in elements of this network can have
indeterminate effects: some mutant embryos fail to develop intestinal cells,
whereas others produce intestinal precursors. By counting transcripts of the
genes in this network in individual embryos, we show that the expression of an
otherwise redundant gene becomes highly variable in the mutants and that this
variation is subjected to a threshold, producing an ON/OFF expression pattern of 
the master regulatory gene of intestinal differentiation. Our results demonstrate
that mutations in developmental networks can expose otherwise buffered stochastic
variability in gene expression, leading to pronounced phenotypic variation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08781 
PMCID: PMC2836165
PMID: 20164922  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):906-12. doi: 10.1038/nature08765.

Active site remodelling accompanies thioester bond formation in the SUMO E1.

Olsen SK(1), Capili AD, Lu X, Tan DS, Lima CD.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Biology, Sloan-Kettering Institute, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Structure. 2010 Mar 14;18(4):419-21.
    Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):889-90.

E1 enzymes activate ubiquitin (Ub) and ubiquitin-like (Ubl) proteins in two steps
by carboxy-terminal adenylation and thioester bond formation to a conserved
catalytic cysteine in the E1 Cys domain. The structural basis for these
intermediates remains unknown. Here we report crystal structures for human SUMO
E1 in complex with SUMO adenylate and tetrahedral intermediate analogues at 2.45 
and 2.6 A, respectively. These structures show that side chain contacts to ATP.Mg
are released after adenylation to facilitate a 130 degree rotation of the Cys
domain during thioester bond formation that is accompanied by remodelling of key 
structural elements including the helix that contains the E1 catalytic cysteine, 
the crossover and re-entry loops, and refolding of two helices that are required 
for adenylation. These changes displace side chains required for adenylation with
side chains required for thioester bond formation. Mutational and biochemical
analyses indicate these mechanisms are conserved in other E1s.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08765 
PMCID: PMC2866016
PMID: 20164921  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):899-905. doi: 10.1038/nature08822.

The landscape of somatic copy-number alteration across human cancers.

Beroukhim R(1), Mermel CH, Porter D, Wei G, Raychaudhuri S, Donovan J, Barretina 
J, Boehm JS, Dobson J, Urashima M, Mc Henry KT, Pinchback RM, Ligon AH, Cho YJ,
Haery L, Greulich H, Reich M, Winckler W, Lawrence MS, Weir BA, Tanaka KE, Chiang
DY, Bass AJ, Loo A, Hoffman C, Prensner J, Liefeld T, Gao Q, Yecies D, Signoretti
S, Maher E, Kaye FJ, Sasaki H, Tepper JE, Fletcher JA, Tabernero J, Baselga J,
Tsao MS, Demichelis F, Rubin MA, Janne PA, Daly MJ, Nucera C, Levine RL, Ebert
BL, Gabriel S, Rustgi AK, Antonescu CR, Ladanyi M, Letai A, Garraway LA, Loda M, 
Beer DG, True LD, Okamoto A, Pomeroy SL, Singer S, Golub TR, Lander ES, Getz G,
Sellers WR, Meyerson M.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Program and Medical and Population Genetics Group, The Broad Institute 
of M.I.T. and Harvard, 7 Cambridge Center.

A powerful way to discover key genes with causal roles in oncogenesis is to
identify genomic regions that undergo frequent alteration in human cancers. Here 
we present high-resolution analyses of somatic copy-number alterations (SCNAs)
from 3,131 cancer specimens, belonging largely to 26 histological types. We
identify 158 regions of focal SCNA that are altered at significant frequency
across several cancer types, of which 122 cannot be explained by the presence of 
a known cancer target gene located within these regions. Several gene families
are enriched among these regions of focal SCNA, including the BCL2 family of
apoptosis regulators and the NF-kappaBeta pathway. We show that cancer cells
containing amplifications surrounding the MCL1 and BCL2L1 anti-apoptotic genes
depend on the expression of these genes for survival. Finally, we demonstrate
that a large majority of SCNAs identified in individual cancer types are present 
in several cancer types.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08822 
PMCID: PMC2826709
PMID: 20164920  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):893-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08768.

Signatures of mutation and selection in the cancer genome.

Bignell GR(1), Greenman CD, Davies H, Butler AP, Edkins S, Andrews JM, Buck G,
Chen L, Beare D, Latimer C, Widaa S, Hinton J, Fahey C, Fu B, Swamy S, Dalgliesh 
GL, Teh BT, Deloukas P, Yang F, Campbell PJ, Futreal PA, Stratton MR.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1SA, UK.

The cancer genome is moulded by the dual processes of somatic mutation and
selection. Homozygous deletions in cancer genomes occur over recessive cancer
genes, where they can confer selective growth advantage, and over fragile sites, 
where they are thought to reflect an increased local rate of DNA breakage.
However, most homozygous deletions in cancer genomes are unexplained. Here we
identified 2,428 somatic homozygous deletions in 746 cancer cell lines. These
overlie 11% of protein-coding genes that, therefore, are not mandatory for
survival of human cells. We derived structural signatures that distinguish
between homozygous deletions over recessive cancer genes and fragile sites.
Application to clusters of unexplained homozygous deletions suggests that many
are in regions of inherent fragility, whereas a small subset overlies recessive
cancer genes. The results illustrate how structural signatures can be used to
distinguish between the influences of mutation and selection in cancer genomes.
The extensive copy number, genotyping, sequence and expression data available for
this large series of publicly available cancer cell lines renders them
informative reagents for future studies of cancer biology and drug discovery.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08768 
PMCID: PMC3145113
PMID: 20164919  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):E8-9; discussion E9-10. doi: 10.1038/nature08809.

Multilevel and kin selection in a connected world.

Wade MJ(1), Wilson DS, Goodnight C, Taylor D, Bar-Yam Y, de Aguiar MA, Stacey B, 
Werfel J, Hoelzer GA, Brodie ED 3rd, Fields P, Breden F, Linksvayer TA, Fletcher 
JA, Richerson PJ, Bever JD, Van Dyken JD, Zee P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana 47405, USA.
mjwade@indiana.edu

Comment on
    Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):983-6.

Wild et al. argue that the evolution of reduced virulence can be understood from 
the perspective of inclusive fitness, obviating the need to evoke group selection
as a contributing causal factor. Although they acknowledge the mathematical
equivalence of the inclusive fitness and multilevel selection approaches, they
conclude that reduced virulence can be viewed entirely as an individual-level
adaptation by the parasite. Here we show that their model is a well-known special
case of the more general theory of multilevel selection, and that the cause of
reduced virulence resides in the opposition of two processes: within-group and
among-group selection. This distinction is important in light of the current
controversy among evolutionary biologists in which some continue to affirm that
natural selection centres only and always at the level of the individual organism
or gene, despite mathematical demonstrations that evolutionary dynamics must be
described by selection at various levels in the hierarchy of biological
organization.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08809 
PMCID: PMC3151728
PMID: 20164866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):968-72. doi: 10.1038/nature08766. Epub 2010 Feb 7.

Enzyme-inhibitor-like tuning of Ca(2+) channel connectivity with calmodulin.

Liu X(1), Yang PS, Yang W, Yue DT.

Author information: 
(1)Calcium Signals Laboratory, Department of Biomedical Engineering, The Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Ross Building, Room 713, 720 Rutland
Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 29;464(7293):1390.

Ca(2+) channels and calmodulin (CaM) are two prominent signalling hubs that
synergistically affect functions as diverse as cardiac excitability, synaptic
plasticity and gene transcription. It is therefore fitting that these hubs are in
some sense coordinated, as the opening of Ca(V)1-2 Ca(2+) channels are regulated 
by a single CaM constitutively complexed with channels. The Ca(2+)-free form of
CaM (apoCaM) is already pre-associated with the isoleucine-glutamine (IQ) domain 
on the channel carboxy terminus, and subsequent Ca(2+) binding to this 'resident'
CaM drives conformational changes that then trigger regulation of channel
opening. Another potential avenue for channel-CaM coordination could arise from
the absence of Ca(2+) regulation in channels lacking a pre-associated CaM.
Natural fluctuations in CaM concentrations might then influence the fraction of
regulable channels and, thereby, the overall strength of Ca(2+) feedback.
However, the prevailing view has been that the ultrastrong affinity of channels
for apoCaM ensures their saturation with CaM, yielding a significant form of
concentration independence between Ca(2+) channels and CaM. Here we show that
significant exceptions to this autonomy exist, by combining electrophysiology (to
characterize channel regulation) with optical fluorescence resonance energy
transfer (FRET) sensor determination of free-apoCaM concentration in live cells. 
This approach translates quantitative CaM biochemistry from the traditional
test-tube context into the realm of functioning holochannels within intact cells.
From this perspective, we find that long splice forms of Ca(V)1.3 and Ca(V)1.4
channels include a distal carboxy tail that resembles an enzyme competitive
inhibitor that retunes channel affinity for apoCaM such that natural CaM
variations affect the strength of Ca(2+) feedback modulation. Given the ubiquity 
of these channels, the connection between ambient CaM levels and Ca(2+) entry
through channels is broadly significant for Ca(2+) homeostasis. Strategies such
as ours promise key advances for the in situ analysis of signalling molecules
resistant to in vitro reconstitution, such as Ca(2+) channels.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08766 
PMCID: PMC3553577
PMID: 20139964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):934-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08793. Epub 2010 Feb 7.

Organic-walled microfossils in 3.2-billion-year-old shallow-marine siliciclastic 
deposits.

Javaux EJ(1), Marshall CP, Bekker A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology, University of Liège, 17 allée du 6 Août B18, Liège
4000, Belgium. ej.javaux@ulg.ac.be

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):885-6.

Although the notion of an early origin and diversification of life on Earth
during the Archaean eon has received increasing support in geochemical,
sedimentological and palaeontological evidence, ambiguities and controversies
persist regarding the biogenicity and syngeneity of the record older than Late
Archaean. Non-biological processes are known to produce morphologies similar to
some microfossils, and hydrothermal fluids have the potential to produce abiotic 
organic compounds with depleted carbon isotope values, making it difficult to
establish unambiguous traces of life. Here we report the discovery of a
population of large (up to about 300 mum in diameter) carbonaceous spheroidal
microstructures in Mesoarchaean shales and siltstones of the Moodies Group, South
Africa, the Earth's oldest siliciclastic alluvial to tidal-estuarine deposits.
These microstructures are interpreted as organic-walled microfossils on the basis
of petrographic and geochemical evidence for their endogenicity and syngeneity,
their carbonaceous composition, cellular morphology and ultrastructure,
occurrence in populations, taphonomic features of soft wall deformation, and the 
geological context plausible for life, as well as a lack of abiotic explanation
falsifying a biological origin. These are the oldest and largest Archaean
organic-walled spheroidal microfossils reported so far. Our observations suggest 
that relatively large microorganisms cohabited with earlier reported benthic
microbial mats in the photic zone of marginal marine siliciclastic environments
3.2 billion years ago.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08793 
PMID: 20139963  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):958-62. doi: 10.1038/nature08733. Epub 2010 Feb 3.

CHD7 cooperates with PBAF to control multipotent neural crest formation.

Bajpai R(1), Chen DA, Rada-Iglesias A, Zhang J, Xiong Y, Helms J, Chang CP, Zhao 
Y, Swigut T, Wysocka J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical and Systems Biology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Heterozygous mutations in the gene encoding the CHD (chromodomain helicase
DNA-binding domain) member CHD7, an ATP-dependent chromatin remodeller homologous
to the Drosophila trithorax-group protein Kismet, result in a complex
constellation of congenital anomalies called CHARGE syndrome, which is a
sporadic, autosomal dominant disorder characterized by malformations of the
craniofacial structures, peripheral nervous system, ears, eyes and heart.
Although it was postulated 25 years ago that CHARGE syndrome results from the
abnormal development of the neural crest, this hypothesis remained untested. Here
we show that, in both humans and Xenopus, CHD7 is essential for the formation of 
multipotent migratory neural crest (NC), a transient cell population that is
ectodermal in origin but undergoes a major transcriptional reprogramming event to
acquire a remarkably broad differentiation potential and ability to migrate
throughout the body, giving rise to craniofacial bones and cartilages, the
peripheral nervous system, pigmentation and cardiac structures. We demonstrate
that CHD7 is essential for activation of the NC transcriptional circuitry,
including Sox9, Twist and Slug. In Xenopus embryos, knockdown of Chd7 or
overexpression of its catalytically inactive form recapitulates all major
features of CHARGE syndrome. In human NC cells CHD7 associates with PBAF
(polybromo- and BRG1-associated factor-containing complex) and both remodellers
occupy a NC-specific distal SOX9 enhancer and a conserved genomic element located
upstream of the TWIST1 gene. Consistently, during embryogenesis CHD7 and PBAF
cooperate to promote NC gene expression and cell migration. Our work identifies
an evolutionarily conserved role for CHD7 in orchestrating NC gene expression
programs, provides insights into the synergistic control of distal elements by
chromatin remodellers, illuminates the patho-embryology of CHARGE syndrome, and
suggests a broader function for CHD7 in the regulation of cell motility.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08733 
PMCID: PMC2890258
PMID: 20130577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):939-42. doi: 10.1038/nature08737. Epub 2010 Jan 24.

A bony connection signals laryngeal echolocation in bats.

Veselka N(1), McErlain DD, Holdsworth DW, Eger JL, Chhem RK, Mason MJ, Brain KL, 
Faure PA, Fenton MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Robarts Research Institute.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):E8; discussion E9.
    Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):E6; discussion E7.

Echolocation is an active form of orientation in which animals emit sounds and
then listen to reflected echoes of those sounds to form images of their
surroundings in their brains. Although echolocation is usually associated with
bats, it is not characteristic of all bats. Most echolocating bats produce
signals in the larynx, but within one family of mainly non-echolocating species
(Pteropodidae), a few species use echolocation sounds produced by tongue clicks. 
Here we demonstrate, using data obtained from micro-computed tomography scans of 
26 species (n = 35 fluid-preserved bats), that proximal articulation of the
stylohyal bone (part of the mammalian hyoid apparatus) with the tympanic bone
always distinguishes laryngeally echolocating bats from all other bats (that is, 
non-echolocating pteropodids and those that echolocate with tongue clicks). In
laryngeally echolocating bats, the proximal end of the stylohyal bone directly
articulates with the tympanic bone and is often fused with it. Previous research 
on the morphology of the stylohyal bone in the oldest known fossil bat
(Onychonycteris finneyi) suggested that it did not echolocate, but our findings
suggest that O. finneyi may have used laryngeal echolocation because its
stylohyal bones may have articulated with its tympanic bones. The present
findings reopen basic questions about the timing and the origin of flight and
echolocation in the early evolution of bats. Our data also provide an independent
anatomical character by which to distinguish laryngeally echolocating bats from
other bats.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08737 
PMID: 20098413  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Nature. 2010 Feb 11;463(7282):823-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08724.

Mical links semaphorins to F-actin disassembly.

Hung RJ(1), Yazdani U, Yoon J, Wu H, Yang T, Gupta N, Huang Z, van Berkel WJ,
Terman JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Neuroscience Graduate Program, The University of
Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.

How instructive cues present on the cell surface have their precise effects on
the actin cytoskeleton is poorly understood. Semaphorins are one of the largest
families of these instructive cues and are widely studied for their effects on
cell movement, navigation, angiogenesis, immunology and cancer.
Semaphorins/collapsins were characterized in part on the basis of their ability
to drastically alter actin cytoskeletal dynamics in neuronal processes, but
despite considerable progress in the identification of semaphorin receptors and
their signalling pathways, the molecules linking them to the precise control of
cytoskeletal elements remain unknown. Recently, highly unusual proteins of the
Mical family of enzymes have been found to associate with the cytoplasmic portion
of plexins, which are large cell-surface semaphorin receptors, and to mediate
axon guidance, synaptogenesis, dendritic pruning and other cell morphological
changes. Mical enzymes perform reduction-oxidation (redox) enzymatic reactions
and also contain domains found in proteins that regulate cell morphology.
However, nothing is known of the role of Mical or its redox activity in mediating
morphological changes. Here we report that Mical directly links semaphorins and
their plexin receptors to the precise control of actin filament (F-actin)
dynamics. We found that Mical is both necessary and sufficient for
semaphorin-plexin-mediated F-actin reorganization in vivo. Likewise, we purified 
Mical protein and found that it directly binds F-actin and disassembles both
individual and bundled actin filaments. We also found that Mical utilizes its
redox activity to alter F-actin dynamics in vivo and in vitro, indicating a
previously unknown role for specific redox signalling events in actin
cytoskeletal regulation. Mical therefore is a novel F-actin-disassembly factor
that provides a molecular conduit through which actin reorganization-a hallmark
of cell morphological changes including axon navigation-can be precisely achieved
spatiotemporally in response to semaphorins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08724 
PMCID: PMC3215588
PMID: 20148037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Nature. 2010 Feb 11;463(7282):793-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08754.

Zonal flow formation in the Earth's core.

Miyagoshi T(1), Kageyama A, Sato T.

Author information: 
(1)Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology, Yokohama, 236-0001,
Japan.

Zonal jets are very common in nature. Well-known examples are those in the
atmospheres of giant planets and the alternating jet streams found in the Earth's
world ocean. Zonal flow formation in nuclear fusion devices is also well studied.
A common feature of these zonal flows is that they are spontaneously generated in
turbulent systems. Because the Earth's outer core is believed to be in a
turbulent state, it is possible that there is zonal flow in the liquid iron of
the outer core. Here we report an investigation at the current low-viscosity
limit of numerical simulations of the geodynamo. We find a previously unknown
convection regime of the outer core that has a dual structure comprising inner,
sheet-like radial plumes and an outer, westward cylindrical zonal flow. We
numerically confirm that the dual-convection structure with such a zonal flow is 
stable under a strong, self-generated dipole magnetic field.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08754 
PMID: 20148036 


809. Nature. 2010 Feb 11;463(7282):789-92. doi: 10.1038/nature08731.

Above-room-temperature ferroelectricity in a single-component molecular crystal.

Horiuchi S(1), Tokunaga Y, Giovannetti G, Picozzi S, Itoh H, Shimano R, Kumai R, 
Tokura Y.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST),
Tsukuba 305-8562, Japan. s-horiuchi@aist.go.jp

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):1006.

Ferroelectrics are electro-active materials that can store and switch their
polarity (ferroelectricity), sense temperature changes (pyroelectricity),
interchange electric and mechanical functions (piezoelectricity), and manipulate 
light (through optical nonlinearities and the electro-optic effect): all of these
functions have practical applications. Topological switching of pi-conjugation in
organic molecules, such as the keto-enol transformation, has long been
anticipated as a means of realizing these phenomena in molecular assemblies and
crystals. Croconic acid, an ingredient of black dyes, was recently found to have 
a hydrogen-bonded polar structure in a crystalline state. Here we demonstrate
that application of an electric field can coherently align the molecular
polarities in crystalline croconic acid, as indicated by an increase of optical
second harmonic generation, and produce a well-defined polarization hysteresis at
room temperature. To make this simple pentagonal molecule ferroelectric, we
switched the pi-bond topology using synchronized proton transfer instead of
rigid-body rotation. Of the organic ferroelectrics, this molecular crystal
exhibits the highest spontaneous polarization ( approximately 20 muC cm(-2)) in
spite of its small molecular size, which is in accord with first-principles
electronic-structure calculations. Such high polarization, which persists up to
400 K, may find application in active capacitor and nonlinear optics elements in 
future organic electronics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08731 
PMID: 20148035 


810. Nature. 2010 Feb 11;463(7282):785-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08774.

Direct mass measurements above uranium bridge the gap to the island of stability.

Block M(1), Ackermann D, Blaum K, Droese C, Dworschak M, Eliseev S, Fleckenstein 
T, Haettner E, Herfurth F, Hessberger FP, Hofmann S, Ketelaer J, Ketter J, Kluge 
HJ, Marx G, Mazzocco M, Novikov YN, Plass WR, Popeko A, Rahaman S, Rodríguez D,
Scheidenberger C, Schweikhard L, Thirolf PG, Vorobyev GK, Weber C.

Author information: 
(1)GSI Helmholtzzentrum für Schwerionenforschung GmbH, Planckstrasse 1, 64291
Darmstadt, Germany. m.block@gsi.de

The mass of an atom incorporates all its constituents and their interactions. The
difference between the mass of an atom and the sum of its building blocks (the
binding energy) is a manifestation of Einstein's famous relation E = mc(2). The
binding energy determines the energy available for nuclear reactions and decays
(and thus the creation of elements by stellar nucleosynthesis), and holds the key
to the fundamental question of how heavy the elements can be. Superheavy elements
have been observed in challenging production experiments, but our present
knowledge of the binding energy of these nuclides is based only on the detection 
of their decay products. The reconstruction from extended decay chains introduces
uncertainties that render the interpretation difficult. Here we report direct
mass measurements of trans-uranium nuclides. Located at the farthest tip of the
actinide species on the proton number-neutron number diagram, these nuclides
represent the gateway to the predicted island of stability. In particular, we
have determined the mass values of (252-254)No (atomic number 102) with the
Penning trap mass spectrometer SHIPTRAP. The uncertainties are of the order of 10
keV/c(2) (representing a relative precision of 0.05 p.p.m.), despite minute
production rates of less than one atom per second. Our experiments advance direct
mass measurements by ten atomic numbers with no loss in accuracy, and provide
reliable anchor points en route to the island of stability.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08774 
PMID: 20148034 


811. Nature. 2010 Feb 11;463(7282):781-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08773.

High molecular gas fractions in normal massive star-forming galaxies in the young
Universe.

Tacconi LJ(1), Genzel R, Neri R, Cox P, Cooper MC, Shapiro K, Bolatto A, Bouché
N, Bournaud F, Burkert A, Combes F, Comerford J, Davis M, Schreiber NM,
Garcia-Burillo S, Gracia-Carpio J, Lutz D, Naab T, Omont A, Shapley A, Sternberg 
A, Weiner B.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für extraterrestrische Physik (MPE), Giessenbachstr. 1,
85748 Garching, Germany. linda@mpe.mpg.de

Stars form from cold molecular interstellar gas. As this is relatively rare in
the local Universe, galaxies like the Milky Way form only a few new stars per
year. Typical massive galaxies in the distant Universe formed stars an order of
magnitude more rapidly. Unless star formation was significantly more efficient,
this difference suggests that young galaxies were much more molecular-gas rich.
Molecular gas observations in the distant Universe have so far largely been
restricted to very luminous, rare objects, including mergers and quasars, and
accordingly we do not yet have a clear idea about the gas content of more normal 
(albeit massive) galaxies. Here we report the results of a survey of molecular
gas in samples of typical massive-star-forming galaxies at mean redshifts <z> of 
about 1.2 and 2.3, when the Universe was respectively 40% and 24% of its current 
age. Our measurements reveal that distant star forming galaxies were indeed gas
rich, and that the star formation efficiency is not strongly dependent on cosmic 
epoch. The average fraction of cold gas relative to total galaxy baryonic mass at
z = 2.3 and z = 1.2 is respectively about 44% and 34%, three to ten times higher 
than in today's massive spiral galaxies. The slow decrease between z
approximately 2 and z approximately 1 probably requires a mechanism of
semi-continuous replenishment of fresh gas to the young galaxies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08773 
PMID: 20148033 


812. Nature. 2010 Feb 11;463(7282):775-80. doi: 10.1038/nature08748.

Rfx6 directs islet formation and insulin production in mice and humans.

Smith SB(1), Qu HQ, Taleb N, Kishimoto NY, Scheel DW, Lu Y, Patch AM, Grabs R,
Wang J, Lynn FC, Miyatsuka T, Mitchell J, Seerke R, Désir J, Vanden Eijnden S,
Abramowicz M, Kacet N, Weill J, Renard ME, Gentile M, Hansen I, Dewar K,
Hattersley AT, Wang R, Wilson ME, Johnson JD, Polychronakos C, German MS.

Author information: 
(1)Diabetes Center, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco,
California 94143, USA.

Insulin from the beta-cells of the pancreatic islets of Langerhans controls
energy homeostasis in vertebrates, and its deficiency causes diabetes mellitus.
During embryonic development, the transcription factor neurogenin 3 (Neurog3)
initiates the differentiation of the beta-cells and other islet cell types from
pancreatic endoderm, but the genetic program that subsequently completes this
differentiation remains incompletely understood. Here we show that the
transcription factor Rfx6 directs islet cell differentiation downstream of
Neurog3. Mice lacking Rfx6 failed to generate any of the normal islet cell types 
except for pancreatic-polypeptide-producing cells. In human infants with a
similar autosomal recessive syndrome of neonatal diabetes, genetic mapping and
subsequent sequencing identified mutations in the human RFX6 gene. These studies 
demonstrate a unique position for Rfx6 in the hierarchy of factors that
coordinate pancreatic islet development in both mice and humans. Rfx6 could prove
useful in efforts to generate beta-cells for patients with diabetes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08748 
PMCID: PMC2896718
PMID: 20148032  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Nature. 2010 Feb 11;463(7282):769-74. doi: 10.1038/nature08758.

Neural bases for addictive properties of benzodiazepines.

Tan KR(1), Brown M, Labouèbe G, Yvon C, Creton C, Fritschy JM, Rudolph U, Lüscher
C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Basic Neurosciences, Medical Faculty, University of Geneva,
CH-1211 Geneva, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Feb 11;463(7282):743-4.

Benzodiazepines are widely used in clinics and for recreational purposes, but
will lead to addiction in vulnerable individuals. Addictive drugs increase the
levels of dopamine and also trigger long-lasting synaptic adaptations in the
mesolimbic reward system that ultimately may induce the pathological behaviour.
The neural basis for the addictive nature of benzodiazepines, however, remains
elusive. Here we show that benzodiazepines increase firing of dopamine neurons of
the ventral tegmental area through the positive modulation of GABA(A)
(gamma-aminobutyric acid type A) receptors in nearby interneurons. Such
disinhibition, which relies on alpha1-containing GABA(A) receptors expressed in
these cells, triggers drug-evoked synaptic plasticity in excitatory afferents
onto dopamine neurons and underlies drug reinforcement. Taken together, our data 
provide evidence that benzodiazepines share defining pharmacological features of 
addictive drugs through cell-type-specific expression of alpha1-containing
GABA(A) receptors in the ventral tegmental area. The data also indicate that
subunit-selective benzodiazepines sparing alpha1 may be devoid of addiction
liability.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08758 
PMCID: PMC2871668
PMID: 20148031  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Nature. 2010 Feb 11;463(7282):763-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08747.

Genome sequencing and analysis of the model grass Brachypodium distachyon.

International Brachypodium Initiative(1).

Collaborators: Vogel JP, Garvin DF, Mockler TC, Schmutz J, Rokhsar D, Bevan MW,
Barry K, Lucas S, Harmon-Smith M, Lail K, Tice H, Schmutz J, Grimwood J, McKenzie
N, Bevan MW, Huo N, Gu YQ, Lazo GR, Anderson OD, Vogel JP, You FM, Luo MC, Dvorak
J, Wright J, Febrer M, Bevan MW, Idziak D, Hasterok R, Garvin DF, Lindquist E,
Wang M, Fox SE, Priest HD, Filichkin SA, Givan SA, Bryant DW, Chang JH, Mockler
TC, Wu H, Wu W, Hsia AP, Schnable PS, Kalyanaraman A, Barbazuk B, Michael TP,
Hazen SP, Bragg JN, Laudencia-Chingcuanco D, Vogel JP, Garvin DF, Weng Y,
McKenzie N, Bevan MW, Haberer G, Spannagl M, Mayer K, Rattei T, Mitros T, Rokhsar
D, Lee SJ, Rose JK, Mueller LA, York TL, Wicker T, Buchmann JP, Tanskanen J,
Schulman AH, Gundlach H, Wright J, Bevan M, de Oliveira AC, Maia Lda C, Belknap
W, Gu YQ, Jiang N, Lai J, Zhu L, Ma J, Sun C, Pritham E, Salse J, Murat F, Abrouk
M, Haberer G, Spannagl M, Mayer K, Bruggmann R, Messing J, You FM, Luo MC, Dvorak
J, Fahlgren N, Fox SE, Sullivan CM, Mockler TC, Carrington JC, Chapman EJ, May
GD, Zhai J, Ganssmann M, Gurazada SG, German M, Meyers BC, Green PJ, Bragg JN,
Tyler L, Wu J, Gu YQ, Lazo GR, Laudencia-Chingcuanco D, Thomson J, Vogel JP,
Hazen SP, Chen S, Scheller HV, Harholt J, Ulvskov P, Fox SE, Filichkin SA,
Fahlgren N, Kimbrel JA, Chang JH, Sullivan CM, Chapman EJ, Carrington JC, Mockler
TC, Bartley LE, Cao P, Jung KH, Sharma MK, Vega-Sanchez M, Ronald P, Dardick CD, 
De Bodt S, Verelst W, Inzé D, Heese M, Schnittger A, Yang X, Kalluri UC, Tuskan
GA, Hua Z, Vierstra RD, Garvin DF, Cui Y, Ouyang S, Sun Q, Liu Z, Yilmaz A,
Grotewold E, Sibout R, Hematy K, Mouille G, Höfte H, Michael T, Pelloux J,
O'Connor D, Schnable J, Rowe S, Harmon F, Cass CL, Sedbrook JC, Byrne ME, Walsh
S, Higgins J, Bevan M, Li P, Brutnell T, Unver T, Budak H, Belcram H, Charles M, 
Chalhoub B, Baxter I.

Author information: 
(1)USDA-ARS Western Regional Research Center, Albany, California 94710, USA.

Three subfamilies of grasses, the Ehrhartoideae, Panicoideae and Pooideae,
provide the bulk of human nutrition and are poised to become major sources of
renewable energy. Here we describe the genome sequence of the wild grass
Brachypodium distachyon (Brachypodium), which is, to our knowledge, the first
member of the Pooideae subfamily to be sequenced. Comparison of the Brachypodium,
rice and sorghum genomes shows a precise history of genome evolution across a
broad diversity of the grasses, and establishes a template for analysis of the
large genomes of economically important pooid grasses such as wheat. The
high-quality genome sequence, coupled with ease of cultivation and
transformation, small size and rapid life cycle, will help Brachypodium reach its
potential as an important model system for developing new energy and food crops.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08747 
PMID: 20148030  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Nature. 2010 Feb 11;463(7282):757-62. doi: 10.1038/nature08835.

Ancient human genome sequence of an extinct Palaeo-Eskimo.

Rasmussen M(1), Li Y, Lindgreen S, Pedersen JS, Albrechtsen A, Moltke I, Metspalu
M, Metspalu E, Kivisild T, Gupta R, Bertalan M, Nielsen K, Gilbert MT, Wang Y,
Raghavan M, Campos PF, Kamp HM, Wilson AS, Gledhill A, Tridico S, Bunce M,
Lorenzen ED, Binladen J, Guo X, Zhao J, Zhang X, Zhang H, Li Z, Chen M, Orlando
L, Kristiansen K, Bak M, Tommerup N, Bendixen C, Pierre TL, Grønnow B, Meldgaard 
M, Andreasen C, Fedorova SA, Osipova LP, Higham TF, Ramsey CB, Hansen TV, Nielsen
FC, Crawford MH, Brunak S, Sicheritz-Pontén T, Villems R, Nielsen R, Krogh A,
Wang J, Willerslev E.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for GeoGenetics, Natural History Museum of Denmark and Department of
Biology, University of Copenhagen, Universitetsparken 15, DK-2100 Copenhagen,
Denmark.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Feb 11;463(7282):739-40.

We report here the genome sequence of an ancient human. Obtained from
approximately 4,000-year-old permafrost-preserved hair, the genome represents a
male individual from the first known culture to settle in Greenland. Sequenced to
an average depth of 20x, we recover 79% of the diploid genome, an amount close to
the practical limit of current sequencing technologies. We identify 353,151
high-confidence single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), of which 6.8% have not
been reported previously. We estimate raw read contamination to be no higher than
0.8%. We use functional SNP assessment to assign possible phenotypic
characteristics of the individual that belonged to a culture whose location has
yielded only trace human remains. We compare the high-confidence SNPs to those of
contemporary populations to find the populations most closely related to the
individual. This provides evidence for a migration from Siberia into the New
World some 5,500 years ago, independent of that giving rise to the modern Native 
Americans and Inuit.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08835 
PMCID: PMC3951495
PMID: 20148029  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Nature. 2010 Feb 11;463(7282):747-56. doi: 10.1038/nature08823.

The next generation of scenarios for climate change research and assessment.

Moss RH(1), Edmonds JA, Hibbard KA, Manning MR, Rose SK, van Vuuren DP, Carter
TR, Emori S, Kainuma M, Kram T, Meehl GA, Mitchell JF, Nakicenovic N, Riahi K,
Smith SJ, Stouffer RJ, Thomson AM, Weyant JP, Wilbanks TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Joint Global Change Research Institute, Pacific Northwest National
Laboratory/University of Maryland, 5825 University Research Court, Suite 3500,
College Park, Maryland 20740, USA. rhm@pnl.gov

Advances in the science and observation of climate change are providing a clearer
understanding of the inherent variability of Earth's climate system and its
likely response to human and natural influences. The implications of climate
change for the environment and society will depend not only on the response of
the Earth system to changes in radiative forcings, but also on how humankind
responds through changes in technology, economies, lifestyle and policy.
Extensive uncertainties exist in future forcings of and responses to climate
change, necessitating the use of scenarios of the future to explore the potential
consequences of different response options. To date, such scenarios have not
adequately examined crucial possibilities, such as climate change mitigation and 
adaptation, and have relied on research processes that slowed the exchange of
information among physical, biological and social scientists. Here we describe a 
new process for creating plausible scenarios to investigate some of the most
challenging and important questions about climate change confronting the global
community.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08823 
PMID: 20148028  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Nature. 2010 Feb 11;463(7282):E6-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08751.

Chronic DLL4 blockade induces vascular neoplasms.

Yan M(1), Callahan CA, Beyer JC, Allamneni KP, Zhang G, Ridgway JB, Niessen K,
Plowman GD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Tumor Biology and Angiogenesis, Genentech Inc., 1 DNA Way, South
San Francisco, California 94080, USA. minhong@gene.com

Comment in
    Future Oncol. 2010 Jul;6(7):1099-103.

Comment on
    Nature. 2006 Dec 21;444(7122):1083-7.

Delta-like 4 (DLL4)-mediated Notch signalling has emerged as an attractive target
for cancer therapy. However, the potential side effects of blocking this pathway 
remain uncertain. Here we show that chronic DLL4 blockade causes pathological
activation of endothelial cells, disrupts normal organ homeostasis and induces
vascular tumours, raising important safety concerns.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08751 
PMID: 20147986  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Nature. 2010 Feb 11;463(7282):797-800. doi: 10.1038/nature08745. Epub 2010 Jan
31.

Non-random decay of chordate characters causes bias in fossil interpretation.

Sansom RS(1), Gabbott SE, Purnell MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology, University of Leicester, Leicester LE1 7RH, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Feb 11;463(7282):741-3.

Exceptional preservation of soft-bodied Cambrian chordates provides our only
direct information on the origin of vertebrates. Fossil chordates from this
interval offer crucial insights into how the distinctive body plan of vertebrates
evolved, but reading this pre-biomineralization fossil record is fraught with
difficulties, leading to controversial and contradictory interpretations. The
cause of these difficulties is taphonomic: we lack data on when and how important
characters change as they decompose, resulting in a lack of constraint on
anatomical interpretation and a failure to distinguish phylogenetic absence of
characters from loss through decay. Here we show, from experimental decay of
amphioxus and ammocoetes, that loss of chordate characters during decay is
non-random: the more phylogenetically informative are the most labile, whereas
plesiomorphic characters are decay resistant. The taphonomic loss of
synapomorphies and relatively higher preservation potential of chordate
plesiomorphies will thus result in bias towards wrongly placing fossils on the
chordate stem. Application of these data to Cathaymyrus (Cambrian period of
China) and Metaspriggina (Cambrian period of Canada) highlights the difficulties:
these fossils cannot be placed reliably in the chordate or vertebrate stem
because they could represent the decayed remains of any non-biomineralized,
total-group chordate. Preliminary data suggest that this decay filter also
affects other groups of organisms and that 'stem-ward slippage' may be a
widespread but currently unrecognized bias in our understanding of the early
evolution of a number of phyla.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08745 
PMID: 20118914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Nature. 2010 Feb 11;463(7282):804-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08719. Epub 2010 Jan 24.

Animal cryptochromes mediate magnetoreception by an unconventional photochemical 
mechanism.

Gegear RJ(1), Foley LE, Casselman A, Reppert SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University of Massachusetts Medical School, 364
Plantation Street, Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA.
robert.gegear@umassmed.edu

Understanding the biophysical basis of animal magnetoreception has been one of
the greatest challenges in sensory biology. Recently it was discovered that the
light-dependent magnetic sense of Drosophila melanogaster is mediated by the
ultraviolet (UV)-A/blue light photoreceptor cryptochrome (Cry). Here we show,
using a transgenic approach, that the photoreceptive, Drosophila-like type 1 Cry 
and the transcriptionally repressive, vertebrate-like type 2 Cry of the monarch
butterfly (Danaus plexippus) can both function in the magnetoreception system of 
Drosophila and require UV-A/blue light (wavelength below 420 nm) to do so. The
lack of magnetic responses for both Cry types at wavelengths above 420 nm does
not fit the widely held view that tryptophan triad-generated radical pairs
mediate the ability of Cry to sense a magnetic field. We bolster this assessment 
by using a mutant form of Drosophila and monarch type 1 Cry and confirm that the 
tryptophan triad pathway is not crucial in magnetic transduction. Together, these
results suggest that animal Crys mediate light-dependent magnetoreception through
an unconventional photochemical mechanism. This work emphasizes the utility of
Drosophila transgenesis for elucidating the precise mechanisms of Cry-mediated
magnetosensitivity in insects and also in vertebrates such as migrating birds.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08719 
PMCID: PMC2820607
PMID: 20098414  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Nature. 2010 Feb 11;463(7282):801-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08736. Epub 2010 Jan 20.

Competition drives cooperation among closely related sperm of deer mice.

Fisher HS(1), Hoekstra HE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, Museum of Comparative
Zoology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. hfisher@oeb.harvard.edu

Among the extraordinary adaptations driven by sperm competition is the
cooperative behaviour of spermatozoa. By forming cooperative groups, sperm can
increase their swimming velocity and thereby gain an advantage in intermale sperm
competition. Accordingly, selection should favour cooperation of the most closely
related sperm to maximize fitness. Here we show that sperm of deer mice (genus
Peromyscus) form motile aggregations, then we use this system to test predictions
of sperm cooperation. We find that sperm aggregate more often with conspecific
than heterospecific sperm, suggesting that individual sperm can discriminate on
the basis of genetic relatedness. Next, we provide evidence that the cooperative 
behaviour of closely related sperm is driven by sperm competition. In a
monogamous species lacking sperm competition, Peromyscus polionotus, sperm
indiscriminately group with unrelated conspecific sperm. In contrast, in the
highly promiscuous deer mouse, Peromyscus maniculatus, sperm are significantly
more likely to aggregate with those obtained from the same male than with sperm
from an unrelated conspecific donor. Even when we test sperm from sibling males, 
we continue to see preferential aggregations of related sperm in P. maniculatus. 
These results suggest that sperm from promiscuous deer mice discriminate among
relatives and thereby cooperate with the most closely related sperm, an
adaptation likely to have been driven by sperm competition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08736 
PMCID: PMC2824558
PMID: 20090679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Nature. 2010 Feb 11;463(7282):828-32. doi: 10.1038/nature08741. Epub 2010 Jan 20.

Mechanism of substrate recognition and transport by an amino acid antiporter.

Gao X(1), Zhou L, Jiao X, Lu F, Yan C, Zeng X, Wang J, Shi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Ministry of Education Protein Science Laboratory, Tsinghua University, Beijing
100084, China.

In extremely acidic environments, enteric bacteria such as Escherichia coli rely 
on the amino acid antiporter AdiC to expel protons by exchanging intracellular
agmatine (Agm(2+)) for extracellular arginine (Arg(+)). AdiC is a representative 
member of the amino acid-polyamine-organocation (APC) superfamily of membrane
transporters. The structure of substrate-free AdiC revealed a homodimeric
assembly, with each protomer containing 12 transmembrane segments and existing in
an outward-open conformation. The overall folding of AdiC is similar to that of
the Na(+)-coupled symporters. Despite these advances, it remains unclear how the 
substrate (arginine or agmatine) is recognized and transported by AdiC. Here we
report the crystal structure of an E. coli AdiC variant bound to Arg at 3.0 A
resolution. The positively charged Arg is enclosed in an acidic binding chamber, 
with the head groups of Arg hydrogen-bonded to main chain atoms of AdiC and the
aliphatic portion of Arg stacked by hydrophobic side chains of highly conserved
residues. Arg binding induces pronounced structural rearrangement in
transmembrane helix 6 (TM6) and, to a lesser extent, TM2 and TM10, resulting in
an occluded conformation. Structural analysis identified three potential gates,
involving four aromatic residues and Glu 208, which may work in concert to
differentially regulate the upload and release of Arg and Agm.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08741 
PMID: 20090677  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Nature. 2010 Feb 11;463(7282):818-22. doi: 10.1038/nature08760. Epub 2010 Jan 17.

Genome-wide RNAi screen identifies human host factors crucial for influenza virus
replication.

Karlas A(1), Machuy N, Shin Y, Pleissner KP, Artarini A, Heuer D, Becker D,
Khalil H, Ogilvie LA, Hess S, Mäurer AP, Müller E, Wolff T, Rudel T, Meyer TF.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Biology Department, Max Planck Institute for Infection Biology,
Charitéplatz 1, 10117 Berlin, Germany.

Influenza A virus, being responsible for seasonal epidemics and reoccurring
pandemics, represents a worldwide threat to public health. High mutation rates
facilitate the generation of viral escape mutants, rendering vaccines and drugs
directed against virus-encoded targets potentially ineffective. In contrast,
targeting host cell determinants temporarily dispensable for the host but crucial
for virus replication could prevent viral escape. Here we report the discovery of
287 human host cell genes influencing influenza A virus replication in a
genome-wide RNA interference (RNAi) screen. Using an independent assay we
confirmed 168 hits (59%) inhibiting either the endemic H1N1 (119 hits) or the
current pandemic swine-origin (121 hits) influenza A virus strains, with an
overlap of 60%. Notably, a subset of these common hits was also essential for
replication of a highly pathogenic avian H5N1 strain. In-depth analyses of
several factors provided insights into their infection stage relevance. Notably, 
SON DNA binding protein (SON) was found to be important for normal trafficking of
influenza virions to late endosomes early in infection. We also show that a small
molecule inhibitor of CDC-like kinase 1 (CLK1) reduces influenza virus
replication by more than two orders of magnitude, an effect connected with
impaired splicing of the viral M2 messenger RNA. Furthermore,
influenza-virus-infected p27(-/-) (cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1B; Cdkn1b) 
mice accumulated significantly lower viral titres in the lung, providing in vivo 
evidence for the importance of this gene. Thus, our results highlight the potency
of genome-wide RNAi screening for the dissection of virus-host interactions and
the identification of drug targets for a broad range of influenza viruses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08760 
PMID: 20081832  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Nature. 2010 Feb 11;463(7282):808-12. doi: 10.1038/nature08750. Epub 2010 Jan 13.

Role of conserved non-coding DNA elements in the Foxp3 gene in regulatory T-cell 
fate.

Zheng Y(1), Josefowicz S, Chaudhry A, Peng XP, Forbush K, Rudensky AY.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Immunology, University of
Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.

Immune homeostasis is dependent on tight control over the size of a population of
regulatory T (T(reg)) cells capable of suppressing over-exuberant immune
responses. The T(reg) cell subset is comprised of cells that commit to the T(reg)
lineage by upregulating the transcription factor Foxp3 either in the thymus
(tT(reg)) or in the periphery (iT(reg)). Considering a central role for Foxp3 in 
T(reg) cell differentiation and function, we proposed that conserved non-coding
DNA sequence (CNS) elements at the Foxp3 locus encode information defining the
size, composition and stability of the T(reg) cell population. Here we describe
the function of three Foxp3 CNS elements (CNS1-3) in T(reg) cell fate
determination in mice. The pioneer element CNS3, which acts to potently increase 
the frequency of T(reg) cells generated in the thymus and the periphery, binds
c-Rel in in vitro assays. In contrast, CNS1, which contains a TGF-beta-NFAT
response element, is superfluous for tT(reg) cell differentiation, but has a
prominent role in iT(reg) cell generation in gut-associated lymphoid tissues.
CNS2, although dispensable for Foxp3 induction, is required for Foxp3 expression 
in the progeny of dividing T(reg) cells. Foxp3 binds to CNS2 in a Cbf-beta-Runx1 
and CpG DNA demethylation-dependent manner, suggesting that Foxp3 recruitment to 
this 'cellular memory module' facilitates the heritable maintenance of the active
state of the Foxp3 locus and, therefore, T(reg) lineage stability. Together, our 
studies demonstrate that the composition, size and maintenance of the T(reg) cell
population are controlled by Foxp3 CNS elements engaged in response to distinct
cell-extrinsic or -intrinsic cues.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08750 
PMCID: PMC2884187
PMID: 20072126  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Nature. 2010 Feb 11;463(7282):813-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08699.

Human host factors required for influenza virus replication.

König R(1), Stertz S, Zhou Y, Inoue A, Hoffmann HH, Bhattacharyya S, Alamares JG,
Tscherne DM, Ortigoza MB, Liang Y, Gao Q, Andrews SE, Bandyopadhyay S, De Jesus
P, Tu BP, Pache L, Shih C, Orth A, Bonamy G, Miraglia L, Ideker T, García-Sastre 
A, Young JA, Palese P, Shaw ML, Chanda SK.

Author information: 
(1)Infectious and Inflammatory Disease Center, Burnham Institute for Medical
Research.

Influenza A virus is an RNA virus that encodes up to 11 proteins and this small
coding capacity demands that the virus use the host cellular machinery for many
aspects of its life cycle. Knowledge of these host cell requirements not only
informs us of the molecular pathways exploited by the virus but also provides
further targets that could be pursued for antiviral drug development. Here we use
an integrative systems approach, based on genome-wide RNA interference screening,
to identify 295 cellular cofactors required for early-stage influenza virus
replication. Within this group, those involved in kinase-regulated signalling,
ubiquitination and phosphatase activity are the most highly enriched, and 181
factors assemble into a highly significant host-pathogen interaction network.
Moreover, 219 of the 295 factors were confirmed to be required for efficient
wild-type influenza virus growth, and further analysis of a subset of genes
showed 23 factors necessary for viral entry, including members of the vacuolar
ATPase (vATPase) and COPI-protein families, fibroblast growth factor receptor
(FGFR) proteins, and glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3)-beta. Furthermore, 10
proteins were confirmed to be involved in post-entry steps of influenza virus
replication. These include nuclear import components, proteases, and the
calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CaM kinase) IIbeta (CAMK2B).
Notably, growth of swine-origin H1N1 influenza virus is also dependent on the
identified host factors, and we show that small molecule inhibitors of several
factors, including vATPase and CAMK2B, antagonize influenza virus replication.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08699 
PMCID: PMC2862546
PMID: 20027183  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):689-92. doi: 10.1038/nature08722.

Structure of the amantadine binding site of influenza M2 proton channels in lipid
bilayers.

Cady SD(1), Schmidt-Rohr K, Wang J, Soto CS, Degrado WF, Hong M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa 50011 2, USA.

The M2 protein of influenza A virus is a membrane-spanning tetrameric proton
channel targeted by the antiviral drugs amantadine and rimantadine. Resistance to
these drugs has compromised their effectiveness against many influenza strains,
including pandemic H1N1. A recent crystal structure of M2(22-46) showed electron 
densities attributed to a single amantadine in the amino-terminal half of the
pore, indicating a physical occlusion mechanism for inhibition. However, a
solution NMR structure of M2(18-60) showed four rimantadines bound to the
carboxy-terminal lipid-facing surface of the helices, suggesting an allosteric
mechanism. Here we show by solid-state NMR spectroscopy that two
amantadine-binding sites exist in M2 in phospholipid bilayers. The high-affinity 
site, occupied by a single amantadine, is located in the N-terminal channel
lumen, surrounded by residues mutated in amantadine-resistant viruses.
Quantification of the protein-amantadine distances resulted in a 0.3 A-resolution
structure of the high-affinity binding site. The second, low-affinity, site was
observed on the C-terminal protein surface, but only when the drug reaches high
concentrations in the bilayer. The orientation and dynamics of the drug are
distinct in the two sites, as shown by (2)H NMR. These results indicate that
amantadine physically occludes the M2 channel, thus paving the way for developing
new antiviral drugs against influenza viruses. The study demonstrates the ability
of solid-state NMR to elucidate small-molecule interactions with membrane
proteins and determine high-resolution structures of their complexes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08722 
PMCID: PMC2818718
PMID: 20130653  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):685-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08743.

Experimental evidence for a frustrated energy landscape in a three-helix-bundle
protein family.

Wensley BG(1), Batey S, Bone FA, Chan ZM, Tumelty NR, Steward A, Kwa LG, Borgia
A, Clarke J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, MRC Centre for Protein
Engineering, Lensfield Rd, Cambridge CB2 1EW UK.

Energy landscape theory is a powerful tool for understanding the structure and
dynamics of complex molecular systems, in particular biological macromolecules.
The primary sequence of a protein defines its free-energy landscape and thus
determines the folding pathway and the rate constants of folding and unfolding,
as well as the protein's native structure. Theory has shown that roughness in the
energy landscape will lead to slower folding, but derivation of detailed
experimental descriptions of this landscape is challenging. Simple folding models
show that folding is significantly influenced by chain entropy; proteins in which
the contacts are local fold quickly, owing to the low entropy cost of forming
stabilizing, native contacts during folding. For some protein families, stability
is also a determinant of folding rate constants. Where these simple metrics fail 
to predict folding behaviour, it is probable that there are features in the
energy landscape that are unusual. Such general observations cannot explain the
folding behaviour of the R15, R16 and R17 domains of alpha-spectrin. R15 folds
approximately 3,000 times faster than its homologues, although they have similar 
structures, stabilities and, as far as can be determined, transition-state
stabilities. Here we show that landscape roughness (internal friction) is
responsible for the slower folding and unfolding of R16 and R17. We use chimaeric
domains to demonstrate that this internal friction is a property of the core, and
suggest that frustration in the landscape of the slow-folding spectrin domains
may be due to misdocking of the long helices during folding. Theoretical studies 
have suggested that rugged landscapes will result in slower folding; here we show
experimentally that such a phenomenon directly influences the folding kinetics of
a 'normal' protein, that is, one with a significant energy barrier that folds on 
a relatively slow, millisecond-second, timescale.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08743 
PMCID: PMC2851140
PMID: 20130652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):681-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08717.

Multiple native states reveal persistent ruggedness of an RNA folding landscape.

Solomatin SV(1), Greenfeld M, Chu S, Herschlag D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305,
USA.

According to the 'thermodynamic hypothesis', the sequence of a biological
macromolecule defines its folded, active (or 'native') structure as a global
energy minimum in the folding landscape. However, the enormous complexity of
folding landscapes of large macromolecules raises the question of whether there
is in fact a unique global minimum corresponding to a unique native conformation 
or whether there are deep local minima corresponding to alternative active
conformations. The folding of many proteins is well described by two-state
models, leading to highly simplified representations of protein folding
landscapes with a single native conformation. Nevertheless, accumulating
experimental evidence suggests a more complex topology of folding landscapes with
multiple active conformations that can take seconds or longer to interconvert.
Here we demonstrate, using single-molecule experiments, that an RNA enzyme folds 
into multiple distinct native states that interconvert on a timescale much longer
than that of catalysis. These data demonstrate that severe ruggedness of RNA
folding landscapes extends into conformational space occupied by native
conformations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08717 
PMCID: PMC2818749
PMID: 20130651  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):676-80. doi: 10.1038/nature08734.

TGF-beta-FOXO signalling maintains leukaemia-initiating cells in chronic myeloid 
leukaemia.

Naka K(1), Hoshii T, Muraguchi T, Tadokoro Y, Ooshio T, Kondo Y, Nakao S,
Motoyama N, Hirao A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Genetics, Center for Cancer and Stem Cell Research,
Cancer Research Institute, Kanazawa University, Kanazawa, Ishikawa 920-0934,
Japan. kazunaka@kenroku.kanazawa-u.ac.jp

Chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) is caused by a defined genetic abnormality that
generates BCR-ABL, a constitutively active tyrosine kinase. It is widely believed
that BCR-ABL activates Akt signalling that suppresses the forkhead O
transcription factors (FOXO), supporting the proliferation or inhibiting the
apoptosis of CML cells. Although the use of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor
imatinib is a breakthrough for CML therapy, imatinib does not deplete the
leukaemia-initiating cells (LICs) that drive the recurrence of CML. Here, using a
syngeneic transplantation system and a CML-like myeloproliferative disease mouse 
model, we show that Foxo3a has an essential role in the maintenance of CML LICs. 
We find that cells with nuclear localization of Foxo3a and decreased Akt
phosphorylation are enriched in the LIC population. Serial transplantation of
LICs generated from Foxo3a(+/+) and Foxo3a(-/-) mice shows that the ability of
LICs to cause disease is significantly decreased by Foxo3a deficiency.
Furthermore, we find that TGF-beta is a critical regulator of Akt activation in
LICs and controls Foxo3a localization. A combination of TGF-beta inhibition,
Foxo3a deficiency and imatinib treatment led to efficient depletion of CML in
vivo. Furthermore, the treatment of human CML LICs with a TGF-beta inhibitor
impaired their colony-forming ability in vitro. Our results demonstrate a
critical role for the TGF-beta-FOXO pathway in the maintenance of LICs, and
strengthen our understanding of the mechanisms that specifically maintain CML
LICs in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08734 
PMID: 20130650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):671-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08727.

A new highly penetrant form of obesity due to deletions on chromosome 16p11.2.

Walters RG(1), Jacquemont S, Valsesia A, de Smith AJ, Martinet D, Andersson J,
Falchi M, Chen F, Andrieux J, Lobbens S, Delobel B, Stutzmann F, El-Sayed
Moustafa JS, Chèvre JC, Lecoeur C, Vatin V, Bouquillon S, Buxton JL, Boute O,
Holder-Espinasse M, Cuisset JM, Lemaitre MP, Ambresin AE, Brioschi A, Gaillard M,
Giusti V, Fellmann F, Ferrarini A, Hadjikhani N, Campion D, Guilmatre A,
Goldenberg A, Calmels N, Mandel JL, Le Caignec C, David A, Isidor B, Cordier MP, 
Dupuis-Girod S, Labalme A, Sanlaville D, Béri-Dexheimer M, Jonveaux P, Leheup B, 
Ounap K, Bochukova EG, Henning E, Keogh J, Ellis RJ, Macdermot KD, van Haelst MM,
Vincent-Delorme C, Plessis G, Touraine R, Philippe A, Malan V, Mathieu-Dramard M,
Chiesa J, Blaumeiser B, Kooy RF, Caiazzo R, Pigeyre M, Balkau B, Sladek R,
Bergmann S, Mooser V, Waterworth D, Reymond A, Vollenweider P, Waeber G, Kurg A, 
Palta P, Esko T, Metspalu A, Nelis M, Elliott P, Hartikainen AL, McCarthy MI,
Peltonen L, Carlsson L, Jacobson P, Sjöström L, Huang N, Hurles ME, O'Rahilly S, 
Farooqi IS, Männik K, Jarvelin MR, Pattou F, Meyre D, Walley AJ, Coin LJ,
Blakemore AI, Froguel P, Beckmann JS.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Genomic Medicine, Imperial College London, London W12 0NN, UK.

Obesity has become a major worldwide challenge to public health, owing to an
interaction between the Western 'obesogenic' environment and a strong genetic
contribution. Recent extensive genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have
identified numerous single nucleotide polymorphisms associated with obesity, but 
these loci together account for only a small fraction of the known heritable
component. Thus, the 'common disease, common variant' hypothesis is increasingly 
coming under challenge. Here we report a highly penetrant form of obesity,
initially observed in 31 subjects who were heterozygous for deletions of at least
593 kilobases at 16p11.2 and whose ascertainment included cognitive deficits.
Nineteen similar deletions were identified from GWAS data in 16,053 individuals
from eight European cohorts. These deletions were absent from healthy non-obese
controls and accounted for 0.7% of our morbid obesity cases (body mass index
(BMI) >or= 40 kg m(-2) or BMI standard deviation score >or= 4; P = 6.4 x 10(-8), 
odds ratio 43.0), demonstrating the potential importance in common disease of
rare variants with strong effects. This highlights a promising strategy for
identifying missing heritability in obesity and other complex traits: cohorts
with extreme phenotypes are likely to be enriched for rare variants, thereby
improving power for their discovery. Subsequent analysis of the loci so
identified may well reveal additional rare variants that further contribute to
the missing heritability, as recently reported for SIM1 (ref. 3). The most
productive approach may therefore be to combine the 'power of the extreme' in
small, well-phenotyped cohorts, with targeted follow-up in case-control and
population cohorts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08727 
PMCID: PMC2880448
PMID: 20130649  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):648-52. doi: 10.1038/nature08755.

Migrating tremors illuminate complex deformation beneath the seismogenic San
Andreas fault.

Shelly DR(1).

Author information: 
(1)US Geological Survey, 345 Middlefield Road, MS 977, Menlo Park, California
94025, USA. dshelly@usgs.gov

The San Andreas fault is one of the most extensively studied faults in the world,
yet its physical character and deformation mode beneath the relatively shallow
earthquake-generating portion remain largely unconstrained. Tectonic
'non-volcanic' tremor, a recently discovered seismic signal probably generated by
shear slip on the deep extension of some major faults, can provide new insight
into the deep fate of such faults, including that of the San Andreas fault near
Parkfield, California. Here I examine continuous seismic data from mid-2001 to
2008, identifying tremor and decomposing the signal into different families of
activity based on the shape and timing of the waveforms at multiple stations.
This approach allows differentiation between activities from nearby patches of
the deep fault and begins to unveil rich and complex patterns of tremor
occurrence. I find that tremor exhibits nearly continuous migration, with the
most extensive episodes propagating more than 20 kilometres along fault strike at
rates of 15-80 kilometres per hour. This suggests that the San Andreas fault
remains a localized through-going structure, at least to the base of the crust,
in this area. Tremor rates and recurrence behaviour changed markedly in the wake 
of the 2004 magnitude-6.0 Parkfield earthquake, but these changes were far from
uniform within the tremor zone, probably reflecting heterogeneous fault
properties and static and dynamic stresses decaying away from the rupture. The
systematic recurrence of tremor demonstrated here suggests the potential to
monitor detailed time-varying deformation on this portion of the deep San Andreas
fault, deformation which unsteadily loads the shallower zone that last ruptured
in the 1857 magnitude-7.9 Fort Tejon earthquake.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08755 
PMID: 20130648 


831. Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):644-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08811.

Coherently wired light-harvesting in photosynthetic marine algae at ambient
temperature.

Collini E(1), Wong CY, Wilk KE, Curmi PM, Brumer P, Scholes GD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Institute for Optical Sciences and Centre for Quantum
Information and Quantum Control, University of Toronto, 80 St George Street,
Toronto, Ontario, M5S 3H6 Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):614-5.

Photosynthesis makes use of sunlight to convert carbon dioxide into useful
biomass and is vital for life on Earth. Crucial components for the photosynthetic
process are antenna proteins, which absorb light and transmit the resultant
excitation energy between molecules to a reaction centre. The efficiency of these
electronic energy transfers has inspired much work on antenna proteins isolated
from photosynthetic organisms to uncover the basic mechanisms at play.
Intriguingly, recent work has documented that light-absorbing molecules in some
photosynthetic proteins capture and transfer energy according to
quantum-mechanical probability laws instead of classical laws at temperatures up 
to 180 K. This contrasts with the long-held view that long-range quantum
coherence between molecules cannot be sustained in complex biological systems,
even at low temperatures. Here we present two-dimensional photon echo
spectroscopy measurements on two evolutionarily related light-harvesting proteins
isolated from marine cryptophyte algae, which reveal exceptionally long-lasting
excitation oscillations with distinct correlations and anti-correlations even at 
ambient temperature. These observations provide compelling evidence for
quantum-coherent sharing of electronic excitation across the 5-nm-wide proteins
under biologically relevant conditions, suggesting that distant molecules within 
the photosynthetic proteins are 'wired' together by quantum coherence for more
efficient light-harvesting in cryptophyte marine algae.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08811 
PMID: 20130647  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):640-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08729.

Directional water collection on wetted spider silk.

Zheng Y(1), Bai H, Huang Z, Tian X, Nie FQ, Zhao Y, Zhai J, Jiang L.

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemistry and Environment, Beijing University of Aeronautics and
Astronautics, Beijing 100191, China.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):618.

Many biological surfaces in both the plant and animal kingdom possess unusual
structural features at the micro- and nanometre-scale that control their
interaction with water and hence wettability. An intriguing example is provided
by desert beetles, which use micrometre-sized patterns of hydrophobic and
hydrophilic regions on their backs to capture water from humid air. As anyone who
has admired spider webs adorned with dew drops will appreciate, spider silk is
also capable of efficiently collecting water from air. Here we show that the
water-collecting ability of the capture silk of the cribellate spider Uloborus
walckenaerius is the result of a unique fibre structure that forms after wetting,
with the 'wet-rebuilt' fibres characterized by periodic spindle-knots made of
random nanofibrils and separated by joints made of aligned nanofibrils. These
structural features result in a surface energy gradient between the spindle-knots
and the joints and also in a difference in Laplace pressure, with both factors
acting together to achieve continuous condensation and directional collection of 
water drops around spindle-knots. Submillimetre-sized liquid drops have been
driven by surface energy gradients or a difference in Laplace pressure, but until
now neither force on its own has been used to overcome the larger hysteresis
effects that make the movement of micrometre-sized drops more difficult. By
tapping into both driving forces, spider silk achieves this task. Inspired by
this finding, we designed artificial fibres that mimic the structural features of
silk and exhibit its directional water-collecting ability.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08729 
PMID: 20130646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):637-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08775.

A ground-based near-infrared emission spectrum of the exoplanet HD 189733b.

Swain MR(1), Deroo P, Griffith CA, Tinetti G, Thatte A, Vasisht G, Chen P,
Bouwman J, Crossfield IJ, Angerhausen D, Afonso C, Henning T.

Author information: 
(1)Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, 4800 Oak Grove 
Drive, Pasadena, California 91109-8099, USA. mark.r.swain@jpl.nasa.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):617-8.

Detection of molecules using infrared spectroscopy probes the conditions and
compositions of exoplanet atmospheres. Water (H(2)O), methane (CH(4)), carbon
dioxide (CO(2)), and carbon monoxide (CO) have been detected in two hot Jupiters.
These previous results relied on space-based telescopes that do not provide
spectroscopic capability in the 2.4-5.2 microm spectral region. Here we report
ground-based observations of the dayside emission spectrum for HD 189733b between
2.0-2.4 microm and 3.1-4.1 microm, where we find a bright emission feature. Where
overlap with space-based instruments exists, our results are in excellent
agreement with previous measurements. A feature at approximately 3.25 microm is
unexpected and difficult to explain with models that assume local thermodynamic
equilibrium (LTE) conditions at the 1 bar to 1 x 10(-6) bar pressures typically
sampled by infrared measurements. The most likely explanation for this feature is
that it arises from non-LTE emission from CH(4), similar to what is seen in the
atmospheres of planets in our own Solar System. These results suggest that
non-LTE effects may need to be considered when interpreting measurements of
strongly irradiated exoplanets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08775 
PMID: 20130645 


834. Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):632-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08726.

Plasmepsin V licenses Plasmodium proteins for export into the host erythrocyte.

Russo I(1), Babbitt S, Muralidharan V, Butler T, Oksman A, Goldberg DE.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Washington University School of Medicine,
Department of Molecular Microbiology, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

During their intraerythrocytic development, malaria parasites export hundreds of 
proteins to remodel their host cell. Nutrient acquisition, cytoadherence and
antigenic variation are among the key virulence functions effected by this
erythrocyte takeover. Proteins destined for export are synthesized in the
endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and cleaved at a conserved (PEXEL) motif, which allows
translocation into the host cell via an ATP-driven translocon called the PTEX
complex. We report that plasmepsin V, an ER aspartic protease with distant
homology to the mammalian processing enzyme BACE, recognizes the PEXEL motif and 
cleaves it at the correct site. This enzyme is essential for parasite viability
and ER residence is essential for its function. We propose that plasmepsin V is
the PEXEL protease and is an attractive enzyme for antimalarial drug development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08726 
PMCID: PMC2826791
PMID: 20130644  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):627-31. doi: 10.1038/nature08728.

An aspartyl protease directs malaria effector proteins to the host cell.

Boddey JA(1), Hodder AN, Günther S, Gilson PR, Patsiouras H, Kapp EA, Pearce JA, 
de Koning-Ward TF, Simpson RJ, Crabb BS, Cowman AF.

Author information: 
(1)The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, Melbourne 3052,
Australia.

Plasmodium falciparum causes the virulent form of malaria and disease
manifestations are linked to growth inside infected erythrocytes. To survive and 
evade host responses the parasite remodels the erythrocyte by exporting several
hundred effector proteins beyond the surrounding parasitophorous vacuole
membrane. A feature of exported proteins is a pentameric motif (RxLxE/Q/D) that
is a substrate for an unknown protease. Here we show that the protein responsible
for cleavage of this motif is plasmepsin V (PMV), an aspartic acid protease
located in the endoplasmic reticulum. PMV cleavage reveals the export signal
(xE/Q/D) at the amino terminus of cargo proteins. Expression of an identical
mature protein with xQ at the N terminus generated by signal peptidase was not
exported, demonstrating that PMV activity is essential and linked with other key 
export events. Identification of the protease responsible for export into
erythrocytes provides a novel target for therapeutic intervention against this
devastating disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08728 
PMCID: PMC2818761
PMID: 20130643  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):657-61. doi: 10.1038/nature08704. Epub 2010 Jan 20.

Evidence for grid cells in a human memory network.

Doeller CF(1), Barry C, Burgess N.

Author information: 
(1)UCL Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, London WC1N 3AR, UK.
c.doeller@ucl.ac.uk

Grid cells in the entorhinal cortex of freely moving rats provide a strikingly
periodic representation of self-location which is indicative of very specific
computational mechanisms. However, the existence of grid cells in humans and
their distribution throughout the brain are unknown. Here we show that the
preferred firing directions of directionally modulated grid cells in rat
entorhinal cortex are aligned with the grids, and that the spatial organization
of grid-cell firing is more strongly apparent at faster than slower running
speeds. Because the grids are also aligned with each other, we predicted a
macroscopic signal visible to functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in
humans. We then looked for this signal as participants explored a virtual reality
environment, mimicking the rats' foraging task: fMRI activation and adaptation
showing a speed-modulated six-fold rotational symmetry in running direction. The 
signal was found in a network of entorhinal/subicular, posterior and medial
parietal, lateral temporal and medial prefrontal areas. The effect was strongest 
in right entorhinal cortex, and the coherence of the directional signal across
entorhinal cortex correlated with spatial memory performance. Our study
illustrates the potential power of combining single-unit electrophysiology with
fMRI in systems neuroscience. Our results provide evidence for grid-cell-like
representations in humans, and implicate a specific type of neural representation
in a network of regions which supports spatial cognition and also
autobiographical memory.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08704 
PMCID: PMC3173857
PMID: 20090680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):653-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08706. Epub 2010 Jan 20.

Mammalian biodiversity on Madagascar controlled by ocean currents.

Ali JR(1), Huber M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Hong Kong, Pokfulam Road, Hong
Kong, China.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):613-4.

Madagascar hosts one of the world's most unusual, endemic, diverse and threatened
concentrations of fauna. To explain its unique, imbalanced biological diversity, 
G. G. Simpson proposed the 'sweepstakes hypothesis', according to which the
ancestors of Madagascar's present-day mammal stock rafted there from Africa. This
is an important hypothesis in biogeography and evolutionary theory for how
animals colonize new frontiers, but its validity is questioned. Studies suggest
that currents were inconsistent with rafting to Madagascar and that land bridges 
provided the migrants' passage. Here we show that currents could have transported
the animals to the island and highlight evidence inconsistent with the
land-bridge hypothesis. Using palaeogeographic reconstructions and
palaeo-oceanographic modelling, we find that strong surface currents flowed from 
northeast Mozambique and Tanzania eastward towards Madagascar during the
Palaeogene period, exactly as required by the 'sweepstakes process'.
Subsequently, Madagascar advanced north towards the equatorial gyre and the
regional current system evolved into its modern configuration with flows westward
from Madagascar to Africa. This may explain why no fully non-aquatic land mammals
have colonized Madagascar since the arrival of the rodents and carnivorans during
the early-Miocene epoch. One implication is that rafting may be the dominant
means of overseas dispersal in the Cenozoic era when palaeocurrent directions are
properly considered.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08706 
PMID: 20090678  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):662-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08739. Epub 2010 Jan 10.

Hsp90 prevents phenotypic variation by suppressing the mutagenic activity of
transposons.

Specchia V(1), Piacentini L, Tritto P, Fanti L, D'Alessandro R, Palumbo G,
Pimpinelli S, Bozzetti MP.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze e Tecnologie Biologiche ed Ambientali (DiSTeBA),
University of Salento, 73100 Lecce, Italy.

The canalization concept describes the resistance of a developmental process to
phenotypic variation, regardless of genetic and environmental perturbations,
owing to the existence of buffering mechanisms. Severe perturbations, which
overcome such buffering mechanisms, produce altered phenotypes that can be
heritable and can themselves be canalized by a genetic assimilation process. An
important implication of this concept is that the buffering mechanism could be
genetically controlled. Recent studies on Hsp90, a protein involved in several
cellular processes and development pathways, indicate that it is a possible
molecular mechanism for canalization and genetic assimilation. In both flies and 
plants, mutations in the Hsp90-encoding gene induce a wide range of phenotypic
abnormalities, which have been interpreted as an increased sensitivity of
different developmental pathways to hidden genetic variability. Thus, Hsp90
chaperone machinery may be an evolutionarily conserved buffering mechanism of
phenotypic variance, which provides the genetic material for natural selection.
Here we offer an additional, perhaps alternative, explanation for proposals of a 
concrete mechanism underlying canalization. We show that, in Drosophila,
functional alterations of Hsp90 affect the Piwi-interacting RNA (piRNA; a class
of germ-line-specific small RNAs) silencing mechanism leading to transposon
activation and the induction of morphological mutants. This indicates that Hsp90 
mutations can generate new variation by transposon-mediated 'canonical'
mutagenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08739 
PMID: 20062045  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):621-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08725. Epub 2010 Jan 6.

Opposing microRNA families regulate self-renewal in mouse embryonic stem cells.

Melton C(1), Judson RL, Blelloch R.

Author information: 
(1)The Eli and Edythe Broad Center of Regeneration Medicine and Stem Cell
Research, Center for Reproductive Sciences, Program in Biomedical Sciences,
University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Mar 4;464(7285):126.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):616.

When embryonic stem cells (ESCs) differentiate, they must both silence the ESC
self-renewal program and activate new tissue-specific programs. In the absence of
DGCR8 (Dgcr8(-/-)), a protein required for microRNA (miRNA) biogenesis, mouse
ESCs are unable to silence self-renewal. Here we show that the introduction of
let-7 miRNAs-a family of miRNAs highly expressed in somatic cells-can suppress
self-renewal in Dgcr8(-/-) but not wild-type ESCs. Introduction of ESC cell cycle
regulating (ESCC) miRNAs into the Dgcr8(-/-) ESCs blocks the capacity of let-7 to
suppress self-renewal. Profiling and bioinformatic analyses show that let-7
inhibits whereas ESCC miRNAs indirectly activate numerous self-renewal genes.
Furthermore, inhibition of the let-7 family promotes de-differentiation of
somatic cells to induced pluripotent stem cells. Together, these findings show
how the ESCC and let-7 miRNAs act through common pathways to alternatively
stabilize the self-renewing versus differentiated cell fates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08725 
PMCID: PMC2894702
PMID: 20054295  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):666-70. doi: 10.1038/nature08689. Epub 2009 Dec 6.

Large, rare chromosomal deletions associated with severe early-onset obesity.

Bochukova EG(1), Huang N, Keogh J, Henning E, Purmann C, Blaszczyk K, Saeed S,
Hamilton-Shield J, Clayton-Smith J, O'Rahilly S, Hurles ME, Farooqi IS.

Author information: 
(1)University of Cambridge Metabolic Research Laboratories, Institute of
Metabolic Science, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge CB2 0QQ, UK.

Comment in
    Clin Genet. 2010 Dec;78(6):521-3.

Obesity is a highly heritable and genetically heterogeneous disorder. Here we
investigated the contribution of copy number variation to obesity in 300
Caucasian patients with severe early-onset obesity, 143 of whom also had
developmental delay. Large (>500 kilobases), rare (<1%) deletions were
significantly enriched in patients compared to 7,366 controls (P < 0.001). We
identified several rare copy number variants that were recurrent in patients but 
absent or at much lower prevalence in controls. We identified five patients with 
overlapping deletions on chromosome 16p11.2 that were found in 2 out of 7,366
controls (P < 5 x 10(-5)). In three patients the deletion co-segregated with
severe obesity. Two patients harboured a larger de novo 16p11.2 deletion,
extending through a 593-kilobase region previously associated with autism and
mental retardation; both of these patients had mild developmental delay in
addition to severe obesity. In an independent sample of 1,062 patients with
severe obesity alone, the smaller 16p11.2 deletion was found in an additional two
patients. All 16p11.2 deletions encompass several genes but include SH2B1, which 
is known to be involved in leptin and insulin signalling. Deletion carriers
exhibited hyperphagia and severe insulin resistance disproportionate for the
degree of obesity. We show that copy number variation contributes significantly
to the genetic architecture of human obesity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08689 
PMCID: PMC3108883
PMID: 19966786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


841. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):559-62. doi: 10.1038/nature08721.

Microbial production of fatty-acid-derived fuels and chemicals from plant
biomass.

Steen EJ(1), Kang Y, Bokinsky G, Hu Z, Schirmer A, McClure A, Del Cardayre SB,
Keasling JD.

Author information: 
(1)Joint BioEnergy Institute, Emeryville, California 94608, USA.

Increasing energy costs and environmental concerns have emphasized the need to
produce sustainable renewable fuels and chemicals. Major efforts to this end are 
focused on the microbial production of high-energy fuels by cost-effective
'consolidated bioprocesses'. Fatty acids are composed of long alkyl chains and
represent nature's 'petroleum', being a primary metabolite used by cells for both
chemical and energy storage functions. These energy-rich molecules are today
isolated from plant and animal oils for a diverse set of products ranging from
fuels to oleochemicals. A more scalable, controllable and economic route to this 
important class of chemicals would be through the microbial conversion of
renewable feedstocks, such as biomass-derived carbohydrates. Here we demonstrate 
the engineering of Escherichia coli to produce structurally tailored fatty esters
(biodiesel), fatty alcohols, and waxes directly from simple sugars. Furthermore, 
we show engineering of the biodiesel-producing cells to express hemicellulases, a
step towards producing these compounds directly from hemicellulose, a major
component of plant-derived biomass.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08721 
PMID: 20111002  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):549-53. doi: 10.1038/nature08710.

Hsp70 stabilizes lysosomes and reverts Niemann-Pick disease-associated lysosomal 
pathology.

Kirkegaard T(1), Roth AG, Petersen NH, Mahalka AK, Olsen OD, Moilanen I, Zylicz
A, Knudsen J, Sandhoff K, Arenz C, Kinnunen PK, Nylandsted J, Jäättelä M.

Author information: 
(1)Apoptosis Department and Centre for Genotoxic Stress Research, Institute of
Cancer Biology, Danish Cancer Society, DK-2100 Copenhagen, Denmark.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):436-8.

Heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) is an evolutionarily highly conserved molecular
chaperone that promotes the survival of stressed cells by inhibiting lysosomal
membrane permeabilization, a hallmark of stress-induced cell death. Clues to its 
molecular mechanism of action may lay in the recently reported stress- and
cancer-associated translocation of a small portion of Hsp70 to the lysosomal
compartment. Here we show that Hsp70 stabilizes lysosomes by binding to an
endolysosomal anionic phospholipid bis(monoacylglycero)phosphate (BMP), an
essential co-factor for lysosomal sphingomyelin metabolism. In acidic
environments Hsp70 binds with high affinity and specificity to BMP, thereby
facilitating the BMP binding and activity of acid sphingomyelinase (ASM). The
inhibition of the Hsp70-BMP interaction by BMP antibodies or a point mutation in 
Hsp70 (Trp90Phe), as well as the pharmacological and genetic inhibition of ASM,
effectively revert the Hsp70-mediated stabilization of lysosomes. Notably, the
reduced ASM activity in cells from patients with Niemann-Pick disease (NPD) A and
B-severe lysosomal storage disorders caused by mutations in the sphingomyelin
phosphodiesterase 1 gene (SMPD1) encoding for ASM-is also associated with a
marked decrease in lysosomal stability, and this phenotype can be effectively
corrected by treatment with recombinant Hsp70. Taken together, these data open
exciting possibilities for the development of new treatments for lysosomal
storage disorders and cancer with compounds that enter the lysosomal lumen by the
endocytic delivery pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08710 
PMID: 20111001  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):531-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08723.

Foot strike patterns and collision forces in habitually barefoot versus shod
runners.

Lieberman DE(1), Venkadesan M, Werbel WA, Daoud AI, D'Andrea S, Davis IS,
Mang'eni RO, Pitsiladis Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Evolutionary Biology, 11 Divinity Avenue, Harvard
University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. danlieb@fas.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):433-4.

Humans have engaged in endurance running for millions of years, but the modern
running shoe was not invented until the 1970s. For most of human evolutionary
history, runners were either barefoot or wore minimal footwear such as sandals or
moccasins with smaller heels and little cushioning relative to modern running
shoes. We wondered how runners coped with the impact caused by the foot colliding
with the ground before the invention of the modern shoe. Here we show that
habitually barefoot endurance runners often land on the fore-foot (fore-foot
strike) before bringing down the heel, but they sometimes land with a flat foot
(mid-foot strike) or, less often, on the heel (rear-foot strike). In contrast,
habitually shod runners mostly rear-foot strike, facilitated by the elevated and 
cushioned heel of the modern running shoe. Kinematic and kinetic analyses show
that even on hard surfaces, barefoot runners who fore-foot strike generate
smaller collision forces than shod rear-foot strikers. This difference results
primarily from a more plantarflexed foot at landing and more ankle compliance
during impact, decreasing the effective mass of the body that collides with the
ground. Fore-foot- and mid-foot-strike gaits were probably more common when
humans ran barefoot or in minimal shoes, and may protect the feet and lower limbs
from some of the impact-related injuries now experienced by a high percentage of 
runners.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08723 
PMID: 20111000  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):527-30. doi: 10.1038/nature08769.

Ensemble reconstruction constraints on the global carbon cycle sensitivity to
climate.

Frank DC(1), Esper J, Raible CC, Büntgen U, Trouet V, Stocker B, Joos F.

Author information: 
(1)Swiss Federal Research Institute WSL, Zürcherstrasse 111, CH-8903 Birmensdorf,
Switzerland. david.frank@wsl.ch

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):438-9.

The processes controlling the carbon flux and carbon storage of the atmosphere,
ocean and terrestrial biosphere are temperature sensitive and are likely to
provide a positive feedback leading to amplified anthropogenic warming. Owing to 
this feedback, at timescales ranging from interannual to the 20-100-kyr cycles of
Earth's orbital variations, warming of the climate system causes a net release of
CO(2) into the atmosphere; this in turn amplifies warming. But the magnitude of
the climate sensitivity of the global carbon cycle (termed gamma), and thus of
its positive feedback strength, is under debate, giving rise to large
uncertainties in global warming projections. Here we quantify the median gamma as
7.7 p.p.m.v. CO(2) per degrees C warming, with a likely range of 1.7-21.4
p.p.m.v. CO(2) per degrees C. Sensitivity experiments exclude significant
influence of pre-industrial land-use change on these estimates. Our results,
based on the coupling of a probabilistic approach with an ensemble of proxy-based
temperature reconstructions and pre-industrial CO(2) data from three ice cores,
provide robust constraints for gamma on the policy-relevant multi-decadal to
centennial timescales. By using an ensemble of >200,000 members, quantification
of gamma is not only improved, but also likelihoods can be assigned, thereby
providing a benchmark for future model simulations. Although uncertainties do not
at present allow exclusion of gamma calculated from any of ten coupled
carbon-climate models, we find that gamma is about twice as likely to fall in the
lowermost than in the uppermost quartile of their range. Our results are
incompatibly lower (P < 0.05) than recent pre-industrial empirical estimates of
approximately 40 p.p.m.v. CO(2) per degrees C (refs 6, 7), and correspondingly
suggest approximately 80% less potential amplification of ongoing global warming.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08769 
PMID: 20110999  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):523-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08730.

Cleaving carbon-carbon bonds by inserting tungsten into unstrained aromatic
rings.

Sattler A(1), Parkin G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Columbia University, New York, New York 10027, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):435-6.

The cleavage of C-H and C-C bonds by transition metal centres is of fundamental
interest and plays an important role in the synthesis of complex organic
molecules from petroleum feedstocks. But while there are many examples for the
oxidative addition of C-H bonds to a metal centre, transformations that feature
oxidative addition of C-C bonds are rare. The paucity of transformations that
involve the cleavage of C-C rather than C-H bonds is usually attributed to
kinetic factors arising from the greater steric hindrance and the directional
nature of the sp(n) hybrids that form the C-C bond, and to thermodynamic factors 
arising from the fact that M-C bonds are weaker than M-H bonds. Not surprisingly,
therefore, most examples of C-C bond cleavage either avoid the kinetic
limitations by using metal compounds in which the C-C bond is held in close
proximity to the metal centre, or avoid the thermodynamic limitations by using
organic substrates in which the cleavage is accompanied by either a relief of
strain energy or the formation of an aromatic system. Here, we show that a
tungsten centre can be used to cleave a strong C-C bond that is a component of an
unstrained 6-membered aromatic ring. The cleavage is enabled by the formation of 
an unusual chelating di(isocyanide) ligand, which suggests that other metal
centres with suitable ancillary ligands could also accomplish the cleavage of
strong C-C bonds of aromatic substrates and thereby provide new ways of
functionalizing such molecules.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08730 
PMID: 20110998 


846. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):519-22. doi: 10.1038/nature08716.

Broken rotational symmetry in the pseudogap phase of a high-T(c) superconductor.

Daou R(1), Chang J, Leboeuf D, Cyr-Choinière O, Laliberté F, Doiron-Leyraud N,
Ramshaw BJ, Liang R, Bonn DA, Hardy WN, Taillefer L.

Author information: 
(1)Département de Physique and RQMP, Université de Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke, Québec
J1K 2R1, Canada.

The nature of the pseudogap phase is a central problem in the effort to
understand the high-transition-temperature (high-T(c)) copper oxide
superconductors. A fundamental question is what symmetries are broken when the
pseudogap phase sets in, which occurs when the temperature decreases below a
value T*. There is evidence from measurements of both polarized neutron
diffraction and the polar Kerr effect that time-reversal symmetry is broken, but 
at temperatures that differ significantly from one another. Broken rotational
symmetry was detected from both resistivity measurements and inelastic neutron
scattering at low doping, and from scanning tunnelling spectroscopy at low
temperature, but showed no clear relation to T*. Here we report the observation
of a large in-plane anisotropy of the Nernst effect in YBa(2)Cu(3)O(y) that sets 
in precisely at T* throughout the doping phase diagram. We show that the CuO
chains of the orthorhombic lattice are not responsible for this anisotropy, which
is therefore an intrinsic property of the CuO(2) planes. We conclude that the
pseudogap phase is an electronic state that strongly breaks four-fold rotational 
symmetry. This narrows the range of possible states considerably, pointing to
stripe or nematic order.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08716 
PMID: 20110997 


847. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):516-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08713.

A mildly relativistic radio jet from the otherwise normal type Ic supernova
2007gr.

Paragi Z(1), Taylor GB, Kouveliotou C, Granot J, Ramirez-Ruiz E, Bietenholz M,
van der Horst AJ, Pidopryhora Y, van Langevelde HJ, Garrett MA, Szomoru A, Argo
MK, Bourke S, Paczyński B.

Author information: 
(1)Joint Institute for VLBI in Europe (JIVE), Postbus 2, 7990AA Dwingeloo, The
Netherlands. zparagi@jive.nl

The class of type Ic supernovae have drawn increasing attention since 1998 owing 
to their sparse association (only four so far) with long duration gamma-ray
bursts (GRBs). Although both phenomena originate from the core collapse of a
massive star, supernovae emit mostly at optical wavelengths, whereas GRBs emit
mostly in soft gamma-rays or hard X-rays. Though the GRB central engine generates
ultra-relativistic jets, which beam the early emission into a narrow cone, no
relativistic outflows have hitherto been found in type Ib/c supernovae
explosions, despite theoretical expectations and searches. Here we report radio
(interferometric) observations that reveal a mildly relativistic expansion in a
nearby type Ic supernova, SN 2007gr. Using two observational epochs 60 days
apart, we detect expansion of the source and establish a conservative lower limit
for the average apparent expansion velocity of 0.6c. Independently, a second
mildly relativistic supernova has been reported. Contrary to the radio data,
optical observations of SN 2007gr indicate a typical type Ic supernova with
ejecta velocities approximately 6,000 km s(-1), much lower than in GRB-associated
supernovae. We conclude that in SN 2007gr a small fraction of the ejecta produced
a low-energy mildly relativistic bipolar radio jet, while the bulk of the ejecta 
were slower and, as shown by optical spectropolarimetry, mildly aspherical.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08713 
PMID: 20110996 


848. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):513-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08714.

A relativistic type Ibc supernova without a detected gamma-ray burst.

Soderberg AM(1), Chakraborti S, Pignata G, Chevalier RA, Chandra P, Ray A,
Wieringa MH, Copete A, Chaplin V, Connaughton V, Barthelmy SD, Bietenholz MF,
Chugai N, Stritzinger MD, Hamuy M, Fransson C, Fox O, Levesque EM, Grindlay JE,
Challis P, Foley RJ, Kirshner RP, Milne PA, Torres MA.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, 60 Garden Street, MS-51,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. asoderberg@cfa.harvard.edu

Long duration gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) mark the explosive death of some massive
stars and are a rare sub-class of type Ibc supernovae. They are distinguished by 
the production of an energetic and collimated relativistic outflow powered by a
central engine (an accreting black hole or neutron star). Observationally, this
outflow is manifested in the pulse of gamma-rays and a long-lived radio
afterglow. Until now, central-engine-driven supernovae have been discovered
exclusively through their gamma-ray emission, yet it is expected that a larger
population goes undetected because of limited satellite sensitivity or beaming of
the collimated emission away from our line of sight. In this framework, the
recovery of undetected GRBs may be possible through radio searches for type Ibc
supernovae with relativistic outflows. Here we report the discovery of luminous
radio emission from the seemingly ordinary type Ibc SN 2009bb, which requires a
substantial relativistic outflow powered by a central engine. A comparison with
our radio survey of type Ibc supernovae reveals that the fraction harbouring
central engines is low, about one per cent, measured independently from, but
consistent with, the inferred rate of nearby GRBs. Independently, a second mildly
relativistic supernova has been reported.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08714 
PMID: 20110995 


849. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):507-12. doi: 10.1038/nature08720.

Structure of a bacterial homologue of vitamin K epoxide reductase.

Li W(1), Schulman S, Dutton RJ, Boyd D, Beckwith J, Rapoport TA.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Cell Biology, Harvard
Medical School, 240 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
weikai@crystal.harvard.edu

Vitamin K epoxide reductase (VKOR) generates vitamin K hydroquinone to sustain
gamma-carboxylation of many blood coagulation factors. Here, we report the 3.6 A 
crystal structure of a bacterial homologue of VKOR from Synechococcus sp. The
structure shows VKOR in complex with its naturally fused redox partner, a
thioredoxin-like domain, and corresponds to an arrested state of electron
transfer. The catalytic core of VKOR is a four transmembrane helix bundle that
surrounds a quinone, connected through an additional transmembrane segment with
the periplasmic thioredoxin-like domain. We propose a pathway for how VKOR uses
electrons from cysteines of newly synthesized proteins to reduce a quinone, a
mechanism confirmed by in vitro reconstitution of vitamin K-dependent disulphide 
bridge formation. Our results have implications for the mechanism of the
mammalian VKOR and explain how mutations can cause resistance to the VKOR
inhibitor warfarin, the most commonly used oral anticoagulant.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08720 
PMCID: PMC2919313
PMID: 20110994  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):495-500. doi: 10.1038/nature08749.

Systemic signals regulate ageing and rejuvenation of blood stem cell niches.

Mayack SR(1), Shadrach JL, Kim FS, Wagers AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology, Harvard University, Howard
Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard Stem Cell Institute, Joslin Diabetes Center,
One Joslin Place, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Retraction in
    Nature. 2010 Oct 14;467(7317):872.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2010 May;20(5):504-5.
    NIH Guide Grants Contracts. 2012 Sep 7;:NOT-OD-12-147.
    Fed Regist. 2012 Aug 28;77(167):52034-52035.

Ageing in multicellular organisms typically involves a progressive decline in
cell replacement and repair processes, resulting in several physiological
deficiencies, including inefficient muscle repair, reduced bone mass, and
dysregulation of blood formation (haematopoiesis). Although defects in
tissue-resident stem cells clearly contribute to these phenotypes, it is unclear 
to what extent they reflect stem cell intrinsic alterations or age-related
changes in the stem cell supportive microenvironment, or niche. Here, using
complementary in vivo and in vitro heterochronic models, we show that
age-associated changes in stem cell supportive niche cells deregulate normal
haematopoiesis by causing haematopoietic stem cell dysfunction. Furthermore, we
find that age-dependent defects in niche cells are systemically regulated and can
be reversed by exposure to a young circulation or by neutralization of the
conserved longevity regulator, insulin-like growth factor-1, in the marrow
microenvironment. Together, these results show a new and critical role for local 
and systemic factors in signalling age-related haematopoietic decline, and
highlight a new model in which blood-borne factors in aged animals act through
local niche cells to induce age-dependent disruption of stem cell function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08749 
PMID: 20110993  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):485-92. doi: 10.1038/nature08908.

Cell mechanics and the cytoskeleton.

Fletcher DA(1), Mullins RD.

Author information: 
(1)Bioengineering and Biophysics, University of California, Berkeley, California 
94720, USA. fletch@berkeley.edu

The ability of a eukaryotic cell to resist deformation, to transport
intracellular cargo and to change shape during movement depends on the
cytoskeleton, an interconnected network of filamentous polymers and regulatory
proteins. Recent work has demonstrated that both internal and external physical
forces can act through the cytoskeleton to affect local mechanical properties and
cellular behaviour. Attention is now focused on how cytoskeletal networks
generate, transmit and respond to mechanical signals over both short and long
timescales. An important insight emerging from this work is that long-lived
cytoskeletal structures may act as epigenetic determinants of cell shape,
function and fate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08908 
PMCID: PMC2851742
PMID: 20110992  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):474-84. doi: 10.1038/nature08911.

Chromatin remodelling during development.

Ho L(1), Crabtree GR.

Author information: 
(1)Stanford University Medical School, Room B211, Beckman Center, 279 Campus
Drive, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

New methods for the genome-wide analysis of chromatin are providing insight into 
its roles in development and their underlying mechanisms. Current studies
indicate that chromatin is dynamic, with its structure and its histone
modifications undergoing global changes during transitions in development and in 
response to extracellular cues. In addition to DNA methylation and histone
modification, ATP-dependent enzymes that remodel chromatin are important
controllers of chromatin structure and assembly, and are major contributors to
the dynamic nature of chromatin. Evidence is emerging that these
chromatin-remodelling enzymes have instructive and programmatic roles during
development. Particularly intriguing are the findings that specialized assemblies
of ATP-dependent remodellers are essential for establishing and maintaining
pluripotent and multipotent states in cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08911 
PMCID: PMC3060774
PMID: 20110991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):464-73. doi: 10.1038/nature08910.

The endocytic matrix.

Scita G(1), Di Fiore PP.

Author information: 
(1)IFOM, the FIRC Institute for Molecular Oncology Foundation, at the IFOM-IEO
Campus, Via Adamello 16, 20139, Milan, Italy. giorgio.scita@ifom-ieo-campus.it

Endocytosis has long been thought of as simply a way for cells to internalize
nutrients and membrane-associated molecules. But an explosive growth in knowledge
has given a new dimension to our understanding of this process. It now seems that
endocytosis is a master organizer of signalling circuits, with one of its main
roles being the resolution of signals in space and time. Many of the functions of
endocytosis that are emerging from recent research cannot yet be reconciled with 
the canonical view of intracellular trafficking but, instead, point to
endocytosis being integrated at a deeper level in the cellular 'master plan' (the
cellular network of signalling circuits that lie at the base of the cell's
make-up). Deconvolution of this level, which we call the 'endocytic matrix',
might uncover a fundamental aspect of how a cell is built.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08910 
PMID: 20110990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):457-63. doi: 10.1038/nature08909.

Expansion of the eukaryotic proteome by alternative splicing.

Nilsen TW(1), Graveley BR.

Author information: 
(1)Center for RNA Molecular Biology, Department of Biochemistry, Case Western
Reserve University, School of Medicine, 10900 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44106, USA. twn@case.edu

The collection of components required to carry out the intricate processes
involved in generating and maintaining a living, breathing and, sometimes,
thinking organism is staggeringly complex. Where do all of the parts come from?
Early estimates stated that about 100,000 genes would be required to make up a
mammal; however, the actual number is less than one-quarter of that, barely four 
times the number of genes in budding yeast. It is now clear that the 'missing'
information is in large part provided by alternative splicing, the process by
which multiple different functional messenger RNAs, and therefore proteins, can
be synthesized from a single gene.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08909 
PMCID: PMC3443858
PMID: 20110989  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):446-56. doi: 10.1038/nature08912.

Towards building a chromosome segregation machine.

Bloom K(1), Joglekar A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, 622 Fordham Hall, CB3280, University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA. kerry_bloom@unc.edu

All organisms, from bacteria to humans, face the daunting task of replicating,
packaging and segregating up to two metres (about 6 x 10(9) base pairs) of DNA
when each cell divides. This task is carried out up to a trillion times during
the development of a human from a single fertilized cell. The strategy by which
DNA is replicated is now well understood. But when it comes to packaging and
segregating a genome, the mechanisms are only beginning to be understood and are 
often as variable as the organisms in which they are studied.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08912 
PMCID: PMC2879044
PMID: 20110988  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):563-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08683. Epub 2010 Jan 17.

DNMT1 maintains progenitor function in self-renewing somatic tissue.

Sen GL(1), Reuter JA, Webster DE, Zhu L, Khavari PA.

Author information: 
(1)Programs in Epithelial Biology and Cancer Biology and the Stanford Institute
for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Stanford University, Stanford,
California 94305, USA.

Progenitor cells maintain self-renewing tissues throughout life by sustaining
their capacity for proliferation while suppressing cell cycle exit and terminal
differentiation. DNA methylation provides a potential epigenetic mechanism for
the cellular memory needed to preserve the somatic progenitor state through
repeated cell divisions. DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) maintains DNA
methylation patterns after cellular replication. Although dispensable for
embryonic stem cell maintenance, the role for DNMT1 in maintaining the progenitor
state in constantly replenished somatic tissues, such as mammalian epidermis, is 
unclear. Here we show that DNMT1 is essential for epidermal progenitor cell
function. DNMT1 protein was found enriched in undifferentiated cells, where it
was required to retain proliferative stamina and suppress differentiation. In
tissue, DNMT1 depletion led to exit from the progenitor cell compartment,
premature differentiation and eventual tissue loss. Genome-wide analysis showed
that a significant portion of epidermal differentiation gene promoters were
methylated in self-renewing conditions but were subsequently demethylated during 
differentiation. Furthermore, UHRF1 (refs 9, 10), a component of the DNA
methylation machinery that targets DNMT1 to hemi-methylated DNA, is also
necessary to suppress premature differentiation and sustain proliferation. In
contrast, Gadd45A and B, which promote active DNA demethylation, are required for
full epidermal differentiation gene induction. These data demonstrate that
proteins involved in the dynamic regulation of DNA methylation patterns are
required for progenitor maintenance and self-renewal in mammalian somatic tissue.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08683 
PMCID: PMC3050546
PMID: 20081831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):568-71. doi: 10.1038/nature08703. Epub 2010 Jan 13.

Self versus non-self discrimination during CRISPR RNA-directed immunity.

Marraffini LA(1), Sontheimer EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Molecular Biology and Cell Biology, Northwestern
University, 2205 Tech Drive, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA.
marraffini@northwestern.edu

All immune systems must distinguish self from non-self to repel invaders without 
inducing autoimmunity. Clustered, regularly interspaced, short palindromic repeat
(CRISPR) loci protect bacteria and archaea from invasion by phage and plasmid DNA
through a genetic interference pathway. CRISPR loci are present in approximately 
40% and approximately 90% of sequenced bacterial and archaeal genomes,
respectively, and evolve rapidly, acquiring new spacer sequences to adapt to
highly dynamic viral populations. Immunity requires a sequence match between the 
invasive DNA and the spacers that lie between CRISPR repeats. Each cluster is
genetically linked to a subset of the cas (CRISPR-associated) genes that
collectively encode >40 families of proteins involved in adaptation and
interference. CRISPR loci encode small CRISPR RNAs (crRNAs) that contain a full
spacer flanked by partial repeat sequences. CrRNA spacers are thought to identify
targets by direct Watson-Crick pairing with invasive 'protospacer' DNA, but how
they avoid targeting the spacer DNA within the encoding CRISPR locus itself is
unknown. Here we have defined the mechanism of CRISPR self/non-self
discrimination. In Staphylococcus epidermidis, target/crRNA mismatches at
specific positions outside of the spacer sequence license foreign DNA for
interference, whereas extended pairing between crRNA and CRISPR DNA repeats
prevents autoimmunity. Hence, this CRISPR system uses the base-pairing potential 
of crRNAs not only to specify a target, but also to spare the bacterial
chromosome from interference. Differential complementarity outside of the spacer 
sequence is a built-in feature of all CRISPR systems, indicating that this
mechanism is a broadly applicable solution to the self/non-self dilemma that
confronts all immune pathways.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08703 
PMCID: PMC2813891
PMID: 20072129  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):536-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08700. Epub 2010 Jan 13.

Chimpanzee and human Y chromosomes are remarkably divergent in structure and gene
content.

Hughes JF(1), Skaletsky H, Pyntikova T, Graves TA, van Daalen SK, Minx PJ, Fulton
RS, McGrath SD, Locke DP, Friedman C, Trask BJ, Mardis ER, Warren WC, Repping S, 
Rozen S, Wilson RK, Page DC.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Whitehead Institute, and Department of
Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 9 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.

The human Y chromosome began to evolve from an autosome hundreds of millions of
years ago, acquiring a sex-determining function and undergoing a series of
inversions that suppressed crossing over with the X chromosome. Little is known
about the recent evolution of the Y chromosome because only the human Y
chromosome has been fully sequenced. Prevailing theories hold that Y chromosomes 
evolve by gene loss, the pace of which slows over time, eventually leading to a
paucity of genes, and stasis. These theories have been buttressed by partial
sequence data from newly emergent plant and animal Y chromosomes, but they have
not been tested in older, highly evolved Y chromosomes such as that of humans.
Here we finished sequencing of the male-specific region of the Y chromosome (MSY)
in our closest living relative, the chimpanzee, achieving levels of accuracy and 
completion previously reached for the human MSY. By comparing the MSYs of the two
species we show that they differ radically in sequence structure and gene
content, indicating rapid evolution during the past 6 million years. The
chimpanzee MSY contains twice as many massive palindromes as the human MSY, yet
it has lost large fractions of the MSY protein-coding genes and gene families
present in the last common ancestor. We suggest that the extraordinary divergence
of the chimpanzee and human MSYs was driven by four synergistic factors: the
prominent role of the MSY in sperm production, 'genetic hitchhiking' effects in
the absence of meiotic crossing over, frequent ectopic recombination within the
MSY, and species differences in mating behaviour. Although genetic decay may be
the principal dynamic in the evolution of newly emergent Y chromosomes, wholesale
renovation is the paramount theme in the continuing evolution of chimpanzee,
human and perhaps other older MSYs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08700 
PMCID: PMC3653425
PMID: 20072128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):545-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08702. Epub 2010 Jan 13.

Interaction between Ras(V12) and scribbled clones induces tumour growth and
invasion.

Wu M(1), Pastor-Pareja JC, Xu T.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Genetics, Yale University
School of Medicine, 295 Congress Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut 06519, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2017 Mar 16;543(7645):452.

Human tumours have a large degree of cellular and genetic heterogeneity. Complex 
cell interactions in the tumour and its microenvironment are thought to have an
important role in tumorigenesis and cancer progression. Furthermore, cooperation 
between oncogenic genetic lesions is required for tumour development; however, it
is not known how cell interactions contribute to oncogenic cooperation. The
genetic techniques available in the fruitfly Drosophila melanogaster allow
analysis of the behaviour of cells with distinct mutations, making this the ideal
model organism with which to study cell interactions and oncogenic cooperation.
In Drosophila eye-antennal discs, cooperation between the oncogenic protein
Ras(V12) (ref. 5) and loss-of-function mutations in the conserved tumour
suppressor scribbled (scrib) gives rise to metastatic tumours that display many
characteristics observed in human cancers. Here we show that clones of cells
bearing different mutations can cooperate to promote tumour growth and invasion
in Drosophila. We found that the Ras(V12) and scrib(-) mutations can also cause
tumours when they affect different adjacent epithelial cells. We show that this
interaction between Ras(V12) and scrib(-) clones involves JNK signalling
propagation and JNK-induced upregulation of JAK/STAT-activating cytokines, a
compensatory growth mechanism for tissue homeostasis. The development of Ras(V12)
tumours can also be triggered by tissue damage, a stress condition that activates
JNK signalling. Given the conservation of the pathways examined here, similar
cooperative mechanisms could have a role in the development of human cancers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08702 
PMCID: PMC2835536
PMID: 20072127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):501-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08675. Epub 2010 Jan 13.

Targeting Bcr-Abl by combining allosteric with ATP-binding-site inhibitors.

Zhang J(1), Adrián FJ, Jahnke W, Cowan-Jacob SW, Li AG, Iacob RE, Sim T, Powers
J, Dierks C, Sun F, Guo GR, Ding Q, Okram B, Choi Y, Wojciechowski A, Deng X, Liu
G, Fendrich G, Strauss A, Vajpai N, Grzesiek S, Tuntland T, Liu Y, Bursulaya B,
Azam M, Manley PW, Engen JR, Daley GQ, Warmuth M, Gray NS.

Author information: 
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, Department of Cancer
Biology, Seeley G. Mudd Building 628, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

In an effort to find new pharmacological modalities to overcome resistance to
ATP-binding-site inhibitors of Bcr-Abl, we recently reported the discovery of
GNF-2, a selective allosteric Bcr-Abl inhibitor. Here, using solution NMR, X-ray 
crystallography, mutagenesis and hydrogen exchange mass spectrometry, we show
that GNF-2 binds to the myristate-binding site of Abl, leading to changes in the 
structural dynamics of the ATP-binding site. GNF-5, an analogue of GNF-2 with
improved pharmacokinetic properties, when used in combination with the
ATP-competitive inhibitors imatinib or nilotinib, suppressed the emergence of
resistance mutations in vitro, displayed additive inhibitory activity in
biochemical and cellular assays against T315I mutant human Bcr-Abl and displayed 
in vivo efficacy against this recalcitrant mutant in a murine bone-marrow
transplantation model. These results show that therapeutically relevant
inhibition of Bcr-Abl activity can be achieved with inhibitors that bind to the
myristate-binding site and that combining allosteric and ATP-competitive
inhibitors can overcome resistance to either agent alone.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08675 
PMCID: PMC2901986
PMID: 20072125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):554-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08732. Epub 2010 Jan 6.

A role for the elongator complex in zygotic paternal genome demethylation.

Okada Y(1), Yamagata K, Hong K, Wakayama T, Zhang Y.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599-7295, USA.

The life cycle of mammals begins when a sperm enters an egg. Immediately after
fertilization, both the maternal and paternal genomes undergo dramatic
reprogramming to prepare for the transition from germ cell to somatic cell
transcription programs. One of the molecular events that takes place during this 
transition is the demethylation of the paternal genome. Despite extensive
efforts, the factors responsible for paternal DNA demethylation have not been
identified. To search for such factors, we developed a live cell imaging system
that allows us to monitor the paternal DNA methylation state in zygotes. Through 
short-interfering-RNA-mediated knockdown in mouse zygotes, we identified Elp3
(also called KAT9), a component of the elongator complex, to be important for
paternal DNA demethylation. We demonstrate that knockdown of Elp3 impairs
paternal DNA demethylation as indicated by reporter binding, immunostaining and
bisulphite sequencing. Similar results were also obtained when other elongator
components, Elp1 and Elp4, were knocked down. Importantly, injection of messenger
RNA encoding the Elp3 radical SAM domain mutant, but not the HAT domain mutant,
into MII oocytes before fertilization also impaired paternal DNA demethylation,
indicating that the SAM radical domain is involved in the demethylation process. 
Our study not only establishes a critical role for the elongator complex in
zygotic paternal genome demethylation, but also indicates that the demethylation 
process may be mediated through a reaction that requires an intact radical SAM
domain.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08732 
PMCID: PMC2834414
PMID: 20054296  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):540-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08636. Epub 2009 Dec 20.

Innate production of T(H)2 cytokines by adipose tissue-associated
c-Kit(+)Sca-1(+) lymphoid cells.

Moro K(1), Yamada T, Tanabe M, Takeuchi T, Ikawa T, Kawamoto H, Furusawa J,
Ohtani M, Fujii H, Koyasu S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Keio University School of Medicine,
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):434-5.

Innate immune responses are important in combating various microbes during the
early phases of infection. Natural killer (NK) cells are innate lymphocytes that,
unlike T and B lymphocytes, do not express antigen receptors but rapidly exhibit 
cytotoxic activities against virus-infected cells and produce various cytokines. 
Here we report a new type of innate lymphocyte present in a novel lymphoid
structure associated with adipose tissues in the peritoneal cavity. These cells
do not express lineage (Lin) markers but do express c-Kit, Sca-1 (also known as
Ly6a), IL7R and IL33R. Similar lymphoid clusters were found in both human and
mouse mesentery and we term this tissue 'FALC' (fat-associated lymphoid cluster).
FALC Lin(-)c-Kit(+)Sca-1(+) cells are distinct from lymphoid progenitors and
lymphoid tissue inducer cells. These cells proliferate in response to IL2 and
produce large amounts of T(H)2 cytokines such as IL5, IL6 and IL13. IL5 and IL6
regulate B-cell antibody production and self-renewal of B1 cells. Indeed, FALC
Lin(-)c-Kit(+)Sca-1(+) cells support the self-renewal of B1 cells and enhance IgA
production. IL5 and IL13 mediate allergic inflammation and protection against
helminth infection. After helminth infection and in response to IL33, FALC
Lin(-)c-Kit(+)Sca-1(+) cells produce large amounts of IL13, which leads to goblet
cell hyperplasia-a critical step for helminth expulsion. In mice devoid of FALC
Lin(-)c-Kit(+)Sca-1(+) cells, such goblet cell hyperplasia was not induced. Thus,
FALC Lin(-)c-Kit(+)Sca-1(+) cells are T(H)2-type innate lymphocytes, and we
propose that these cells be called 'natural helper cells'.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08636 
PMID: 20023630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):379-83. doi: 10.1038/nature08701.

Mechanism of folding chamber closure in a group II chaperonin.

Zhang J(1), Baker ML, Schröder GF, Douglas NR, Reissmann S, Jakana J, Dougherty
M, Fu CJ, Levitt M, Ludtke SJ, Frydman J, Chiu W.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Structural and Computational Biology and Molecular
Biophysics, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Group II chaperonins are essential mediators of cellular protein folding in
eukaryotes and archaea. These oligomeric protein machines, approximately 1
megadalton, consist of two back-to-back rings encompassing a central cavity that 
accommodates polypeptide substrates. Chaperonin-mediated protein folding is
critically dependent on the closure of a built-in lid, which is triggered by ATP 
hydrolysis. The structural rearrangements and molecular events leading to lid
closure are still unknown. Here we report four single particle cryo-electron
microscopy (cryo-EM) structures of Mm-cpn, an archaeal group II chaperonin, in
the nucleotide-free (open) and nucleotide-induced (closed) states. The 4.3 A
resolution of the closed conformation allowed building of the first ever atomic
model directly from the single particle cryo-EM density map, in which we were
able to visualize the nucleotide and more than 70% of the side chains. The model 
of the open conformation was obtained by using the deformable elastic network
modelling with the 8 A resolution open-state cryo-EM density restraints.
Together, the open and closed structures show how local conformational changes
triggered by ATP hydrolysis lead to an alteration of intersubunit contacts within
and across the rings, ultimately causing a rocking motion that closes the ring.
Our analyses show that there is an intricate and unforeseen set of interactions
controlling allosteric communication and inter-ring signalling, driving the
conformational cycle of group II chaperonins. Beyond this, we anticipate that our
methodology of combining single particle cryo-EM and computational modelling will
become a powerful tool in the determination of atomic details involved in the
dynamic processes of macromolecular machines in solution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08701 
PMCID: PMC2834796
PMID: 20090755  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):374-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08684.

Transcriptional role of cyclin D1 in development revealed by a genetic-proteomic 
screen.

Bienvenu F(1), Jirawatnotai S, Elias JE, Meyer CA, Mizeracka K, Marson A,
Frampton GM, Cole MF, Odom DT, Odajima J, Geng Y, Zagozdzon A, Jecrois M, Young
RA, Liu XS, Cepko CL, Gygi SP, Sicinski P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Cyclin D1 belongs to the core cell cycle machinery, and it is frequently
overexpressed in human cancers. The full repertoire of cyclin D1 functions in
normal development and oncogenesis is unclear at present. Here we developed Flag-
and haemagglutinin-tagged cyclin D1 knock-in mouse strains that allowed a
high-throughput mass spectrometry approach to search for cyclin D1-binding
proteins in different mouse organs. In addition to cell cycle partners, we
observed several proteins involved in transcription. Genome-wide location
analyses (chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled to DNA microarray; ChIP-chip)
showed that during mouse development cyclin D1 occupies promoters of abundantly
expressed genes. In particular, we found that in developing mouse retinas-an
organ that critically requires cyclin D1 function-cyclin D1 binds the upstream
regulatory region of the Notch1 gene, where it serves to recruit CREB binding
protein (CBP) histone acetyltransferase. Genetic ablation of cyclin D1 resulted
in decreased CBP recruitment, decreased histone acetylation of the Notch1
promoter region, and led to decreased levels of the Notch1 transcript and protein
in cyclin D1-null (Ccnd1(-/-)) retinas. Transduction of an activated allele of
Notch1 into Ccnd1(-/-) retinas increased proliferation of retinal progenitor
cells, indicating that upregulation of Notch1 signalling alleviates the phenotype
of cyclin D1-deficiency. These studies show that in addition to its
well-established cell cycle roles, cyclin D1 has an in vivo transcriptional
function in mouse development. Our approach, which we term 'genetic-proteomic',
can be used to study the in vivo function of essentially any protein.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08684 
PMCID: PMC2943587
PMID: 20090754  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):369-73. doi: 10.1038/nature08698.

FOXO-dependent regulation of innate immune homeostasis.

Becker T(1), Loch G, Beyer M, Zinke I, Aschenbrenner AC, Carrera P, Inhester T,
Schultze JL, Hoch M.

Author information: 
(1)Development, Genetics & Molecular Physiology Unit, LIMES Institute, University
of Bonn, Carl-Troll-Strasse 31, D-53115 Bonn, Germany.

The innate immune system represents an ancient host defence mechanism that
protects against invading microorganisms. An important class of immune effector
molecules to fight pathogen infections are antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) that are
produced in plants and animals. In Drosophila, the induction of AMPs in response 
to infection is regulated through the activation of the evolutionarily conserved 
Toll and immune deficiency (IMD) pathways. Here we show that AMP activation can
be achieved independently of these immunoregulatory pathways by the transcription
factor FOXO, a key regulator of stress resistance, metabolism and ageing. In
non-infected animals, AMP genes are activated in response to nuclear FOXO
activity when induced by starvation, using insulin signalling mutants, or by
applying small molecule inhibitors. AMP induction is lost in foxo null mutants
but enhanced when FOXO is overexpressed. Expression of AMP genes in response to
FOXO activity can also be triggered in animals unable to respond to immune
challenges due to defects in both the Toll and IMD pathways. Molecular
experiments at the Drosomycin promoter indicate that FOXO directly binds to its
regulatory region, thereby inducing its transcription. In vivo studies in
Drosophila, but also studies in human lung, gut, kidney and skin cells indicate
that a FOXO-dependent regulation of AMPs is evolutionarily conserved. Our results
indicate a new mechanism of cross-regulation of metabolism and innate immunity by
which AMP genes can be activated under normal physiological conditions in
response to the oscillating energy status of cells and tissues. This regulation
seems to be independent of the pathogen-responsive innate immunity pathways whose
activation is often associated with tissue damage and repair. The sparse
production of AMPs in epithelial tissues in response to FOXO may help modulating 
the defence reaction without harming the host tissues, in particular when animals
are suffering from energy shortage or stress.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08698 
PMID: 20090753  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):353-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08694.

Mutational robustness can facilitate adaptation.

Draghi JA(1), Parsons TL, Wagner GP, Plotkin JB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19104, USA.

Robustness seems to be the opposite of evolvability. If phenotypes are robust
against mutation, we might expect that a population will have difficulty adapting
to an environmental change, as several studies have suggested. However, other
studies contend that robust organisms are more adaptable. A quantitative
understanding of the relationship between robustness and evolvability will help
resolve these conflicting reports and will clarify outstanding problems in
molecular and experimental evolution, evolutionary developmental biology and
protein engineering. Here we demonstrate, using a general population genetics
model, that mutational robustness can either impede or facilitate adaptation,
depending on the population size, the mutation rate and the structure of the
fitness landscape. In particular, neutral diversity in a robust population can
accelerate adaptation as long as the number of phenotypes accessible to an
individual by mutation is smaller than the total number of phenotypes in the
fitness landscape. These results provide a quantitative resolution to a
significant ambiguity in evolutionary theory.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08694 
PMCID: PMC3071712
PMID: 20090752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):344-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08708.

Increasing springtime ozone mixing ratios in the free troposphere over western
North America.

Cooper OR(1), Parrish DD, Stohl A, Trainer M, Nédélec P, Thouret V, Cammas JP,
Oltmans SJ, Johnson BJ, Tarasick D, Leblanc T, McDermid IS, Jaffe D, Gao R, Stith
J, Ryerson T, Aikin K, Campos T, Weinheimer A, Avery MA.

Author information: 
(1)Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences, University of
Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA. owen.r.cooper@noaa.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):307-8.

In the lowermost layer of the atmosphere-the troposphere-ozone is an important
source of the hydroxyl radical, an oxidant that breaks down most pollutants and
some greenhouse gases. High concentrations of tropospheric ozone are toxic,
however, and have a detrimental effect on human health and ecosystem
productivity. Moreover, tropospheric ozone itself acts as an effective greenhouse
gas. Much of the present tropospheric ozone burden is a consequence of
anthropogenic emissions of ozone precursors resulting in widespread increases in 
ozone concentrations since the late 1800s. At present, east Asia has the
fastest-growing ozone precursor emissions. Much of the springtime east Asian
pollution is exported eastwards towards western North America. Despite evidence
that the exported Asian pollution produces ozone, no previous study has found a
significant increase in free tropospheric ozone concentrations above the western 
USA since measurements began in the late 1970s. Here we compile springtime ozone 
measurements from many different platforms across western North America. We show 
a strong increase in springtime ozone mixing ratios during 1995-2008 and we have 
some additional evidence that a similar rate of increase in ozone mixing ratio
has occurred since 1984. We find that the rate of increase in ozone mixing ratio 
is greatest when measurements are more heavily influenced by direct transport
from Asia. Our result agrees with previous modelling studies, which indicate that
global ozone concentrations should be increasing during the early part of the
twenty-first century as a result of increasing precursor emissions, especially at
northern mid-latitudes, with western North America being particularly sensitive
to rising Asian emissions. We suggest that the observed increase in springtime
background ozone mixing ratio may hinder the USA's compliance with its ozone air 
quality standard.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08708 
PMID: 20090751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):339-43. doi: 10.1038/nature08693.

High-water-content mouldable hydrogels by mixing clay and a dendritic molecular
binder.

Wang Q(1), Mynar JL, Yoshida M, Lee E, Lee M, Okuro K, Kinbara K, Aida T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biotechnology, School of Engineering, The
University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan.

With the world's focus on reducing our dependency on fossil-fuel energy, the
scientific community can investigate new plastic materials that are much less
dependent on petroleum than are conventional plastics. Given increasing
environmental issues, the idea of replacing plastics with water-based gels,
so-called hydrogels, seems reasonable. Here we report that water and clay (2-3
per cent by mass), when mixed with a very small proportion (<0.4 per cent by
mass) of organic components, quickly form a transparent hydrogel. This material
can be moulded into shape-persistent, free-standing objects owing to its
exceptionally great mechanical strength, and rapidly and completely self-heals
when damaged. Furthermore, it preserves biologically active proteins for
catalysis. So far no other hydrogels, including conventional ones formed by
mixing polymeric cations and anions or polysaccharides and borax, have been
reported to possess all these features. Notably, this material is formed only by 
non-covalent forces resulting from the specific design of a telechelic dendritic 
macromolecule with multiple adhesive termini for binding to clay.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08693 
PMID: 20090750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):335-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08692.

Strong crystal size effect on deformation twinning.

Yu Q(1), Shan ZW, Li J, Huang X, Xiao L, Sun J, Ma E.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Advancing Materials Performance from the Nanoscale (CAMP-Nano),
State Key Laboratory for Mechanical Behavior of Materials, Xi'an Jiaotong
University, Xi'an, 710049, China.

Deformation twinning in crystals is a highly coherent inelastic shearing process 
that controls the mechanical behaviour of many materials, but its origin and
spatio-temporal features are shrouded in mystery. Using micro-compression and in 
situ nano-compression experiments, here we find that the stress required for
deformation twinning increases drastically with decreasing sample size of a
titanium alloy single crystal, until the sample size is reduced to one
micrometre, below which the deformation twinning is entirely replaced by less
correlated, ordinary dislocation plasticity. Accompanying the transition in
deformation mechanism, the maximum flow stress of the submicrometre-sized pillars
was observed to saturate at a value close to titanium's ideal strength. We
develop a 'stimulated slip' model to explain the strong size dependence of
deformation twinning. The sample size in transition is relatively large and
easily accessible in experiments, making our understanding of size dependence
relevant for applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08692 
PMID: 20090749 


870. Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):331-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08709.

Earth encounters as the origin of fresh surfaces on near-Earth asteroids.

Binzel RP(1), Morbidelli A, Merouane S, Demeo FE, Birlan M, Vernazza P, Thomas
CA, Rivkin AS, Bus SJ, Tokunaga AT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth, Atmospheric, and Planetary Sciences, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA. rpb@mit.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):305-6.

Telescopic measurements of asteroids' colours rarely match laboratory reflectance
spectra of meteorites owing to a 'space weathering' process that rapidly reddens 
asteroid surfaces in less than 10(6) years. 'Unweathered' asteroids (those having
spectra matching the most commonly falling ordinary chondrite meteorites),
however, are seen among small bodies the orbits of which cross inside Mars and
the Earth. Various explanations have been proposed for the origin of these fresh 
surface colours, ranging from collisions to planetary encounters. Less reddened
asteroids seem to cross most deeply into the terrestrial planet region,
strengthening the evidence for the planetary-encounter theory, but encounter
details within 10(6) years remain to be shown. Here we report that asteroids
displaying unweathered spectra (so-called 'Q-types') have experienced orbital
intersections closer than the Earth-Moon distance within the past 5 x 10(5)
years. These Q-type asteroids are not currently found among asteroids showing no 
evidence of recent close planetary encounters. Our results substantiate previous 
work: tidal stress, strong enough to disturb and expose unweathered surface
grains, is the most likely dominant short-term asteroid resurfacing process.
Although the seismology details are yet to be worked out, the identification of
rapid physical processes that can produce both fresh and weathered asteroid
surfaces resolves the decades-long puzzle of the difference in colour of
asteroids and meteorites.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08709 
PMID: 20090748 


871. Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):326-30. doi: 10.1038/nature08753.

A synchronized quorum of genetic clocks.

Danino T(1), Mondragón-Palomino O, Tsimring L, Hasty J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):301-2.

The engineering of genetic circuits with predictive functionality in living cells
represents a defining focus of the expanding field of synthetic biology. This
focus was elegantly set in motion a decade ago with the design and construction
of a genetic toggle switch and an oscillator, with subsequent highlights that
have included circuits capable of pattern generation, noise shaping, edge
detection and event counting. Here we describe an engineered gene network with
global intercellular coupling that is capable of generating synchronized
oscillations in a growing population of cells. Using microfluidic devices
tailored for cellular populations at differing length scales, we investigate the 
collective synchronization properties along with spatiotemporal waves occurring
at millimetre scales. We use computational modelling to describe quantitatively
the observed dependence of the period and amplitude of the bulk oscillations on
the flow rate. The synchronized genetic clock sets the stage for the use of
microbes in the creation of a macroscopic biosensor with an oscillatory output.
Furthermore, it provides a specific model system for the generation of a
mechanistic description of emergent coordinated behaviour at the colony level.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08753 
PMCID: PMC2838179
PMID: 20090747  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):E3; discussion E4. doi: 10.1038/nature08667.

Essentiality of FASII pathway for Staphylococcus aureus.

Balemans W(1), Lounis N, Gilissen R, Guillemont J, Simmen K, Andries K, Koul A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Antimicrobial Research, Tibotec BVBA, Johnson & Johnson,
Turnhoutseweg 30, B-2340 Beerse, Belgium.

Comment on
    Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):83-6.

Recently, Brinster et al. suggested that type II fatty-acid biosynthesis (FASII) 
is not a suitable antibacterial target for Gram-positive pathogens because they
use fatty acids directly from host serum rather than de novo synthesis. Their
findings, if confirmed, are relevant for further scientific and financial
investments in the development of new drugs targeting FASII. We present here in
vitro and in vivo data demonstrating that their observations do not hold for
Staphylococcus aureus, a major Gram-positive pathogen causing several human
infections. The observed differences among Gram-positive pathogens in FASII
reflects heterogeneity either in fatty-acid synthesis or in the capacity for
fatty-acid uptake from the environment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08667 
PMID: 20090698  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):360-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08672. Epub 2010 Jan 6.

Systematic sequencing of renal carcinoma reveals inactivation of histone
modifying genes.

Dalgliesh GL(1), Furge K, Greenman C, Chen L, Bignell G, Butler A, Davies H,
Edkins S, Hardy C, Latimer C, Teague J, Andrews J, Barthorpe S, Beare D, Buck G, 
Campbell PJ, Forbes S, Jia M, Jones D, Knott H, Kok CY, Lau KW, Leroy C, Lin ML, 
McBride DJ, Maddison M, Maguire S, McLay K, Menzies A, Mironenko T, Mulderrig L, 
Mudie L, O'Meara S, Pleasance E, Rajasingham A, Shepherd R, Smith R, Stebbings L,
Stephens P, Tang G, Tarpey PS, Turrell K, Dykema KJ, Khoo SK, Petillo D,
Wondergem B, Anema J, Kahnoski RJ, Teh BT, Stratton MR, Futreal PA.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Genome Project, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton CB10 1SA, UK.

Comment in
    Future Oncol. 2010 Jun;6(6):897-900.

Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is the most common form of adult kidney
cancer, characterized by the presence of inactivating mutations in the VHL gene
in most cases, and by infrequent somatic mutations in known cancer genes. To
determine further the genetics of ccRCC, we have sequenced 101 cases through
3,544 protein-coding genes. Here we report the identification of inactivating
mutations in two genes encoding enzymes involved in histone modification-SETD2, a
histone H3 lysine 36 methyltransferase, and JARID1C (also known as KDM5C), a
histone H3 lysine 4 demethylase-as well as mutations in the histone H3 lysine 27 
demethylase, UTX (KMD6A), that we recently reported. The results highlight the
role of mutations in components of the chromatin modification machinery in human 
cancer. Furthermore, NF2 mutations were found in non-VHL mutated ccRCC, and
several other probable cancer genes were identified. These results indicate that 
substantial genetic heterogeneity exists in a cancer type dominated by mutations 
in a single gene, and that systematic screens will be key to fully determining
the somatic genetic architecture of cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08672 
PMCID: PMC2820242
PMID: 20054297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):318-25. doi: 10.1038/nature08712. Epub 2009 Dec 23.

The transcriptional network for mesenchymal transformation of brain tumours.

Carro MS(1), Lim WK, Alvarez MJ, Bollo RJ, Zhao X, Snyder EY, Sulman EP, Anne SL,
Doetsch F, Colman H, Lasorella A, Aldape K, Califano A, Iavarone A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Cancer Genetics, Columbia University Medical Center, New York,
New York 10032, USA.

The inference of transcriptional networks that regulate transitions into
physiological or pathological cellular states remains a central challenge in
systems biology. A mesenchymal phenotype is the hallmark of tumour aggressiveness
in human malignant glioma, but the regulatory programs responsible for
implementing the associated molecular signature are largely unknown. Here we show
that reverse-engineering and an unbiased interrogation of a glioma-specific
regulatory network reveal the transcriptional module that activates expression of
mesenchymal genes in malignant glioma. Two transcription factors (C/EBPbeta and
STAT3) emerge as synergistic initiators and master regulators of mesenchymal
transformation. Ectopic co-expression of C/EBPbeta and STAT3 reprograms neural
stem cells along the aberrant mesenchymal lineage, whereas elimination of the two
factors in glioma cells leads to collapse of the mesenchymal signature and
reduces tumour aggressiveness. In human glioma, expression of C/EBPbeta and STAT3
correlates with mesenchymal differentiation and predicts poor clinical outcome.
These results show that the activation of a small regulatory module is necessary 
and sufficient to initiate and maintain an aberrant phenotypic state in cancer
cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08712 
PMCID: PMC4011561
PMID: 20032975  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):311-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08696. Epub 2009 Dec 13.

The sequence and de novo assembly of the giant panda genome.

Li R(1), Fan W, Tian G, Zhu H, He L, Cai J, Huang Q, Cai Q, Li B, Bai Y, Zhang Z,
Zhang Y, Wang W, Li J, Wei F, Li H, Jian M, Li J, Zhang Z, Nielsen R, Li D, Gu W,
Yang Z, Xuan Z, Ryder OA, Leung FC, Zhou Y, Cao J, Sun X, Fu Y, Fang X, Guo X,
Wang B, Hou R, Shen F, Mu B, Ni P, Lin R, Qian W, Wang G, Yu C, Nie W, Wang J, Wu
Z, Liang H, Min J, Wu Q, Cheng S, Ruan J, Wang M, Shi Z, Wen M, Liu B, Ren X,
Zheng H, Dong D, Cook K, Shan G, Zhang H, Kosiol C, Xie X, Lu Z, Zheng H, Li Y,
Steiner CC, Lam TT, Lin S, Zhang Q, Li G, Tian J, Gong T, Liu H, Zhang D, Fang L,
Ye C, Zhang J, Hu W, Xu A, Ren Y, Zhang G, Bruford MW, Li Q, Ma L, Guo Y, An N,
Hu Y, Zheng Y, Shi Y, Li Z, Liu Q, Chen Y, Zhao J, Qu N, Zhao S, Tian F, Wang X, 
Wang H, Xu L, Liu X, Vinar T, Wang Y, Lam TW, Yiu SM, Liu S, Zhang H, Li D, Huang
Y, Wang X, Yang G, Jiang Z, Wang J, Qin N, Li L, Li J, Bolund L, Kristiansen K,
Wong GK, Olson M, Zhang X, Li S, Yang H, Wang J, Wang J.

Author information: 
(1)BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518083, China.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1106.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):303-4.

Using next-generation sequencing technology alone, we have successfully generated
and assembled a draft sequence of the giant panda genome. The assembled contigs
(2.25 gigabases (Gb)) cover approximately 94% of the whole genome, and the
remaining gaps (0.05 Gb) seem to contain carnivore-specific repeats and tandem
repeats. Comparisons with the dog and human showed that the panda genome has a
lower divergence rate. The assessment of panda genes potentially underlying some 
of its unique traits indicated that its bamboo diet might be more dependent on
its gut microbiome than its own genetic composition. We also identified more than
2.7 million heterozygous single nucleotide polymorphisms in the diploid genome.
Our data and analyses provide a foundation for promoting mammalian genetic
research, and demonstrate the feasibility for using next-generation sequencing
technologies for accurate, cost-effective and rapid de novo assembly of large
eukaryotic genomes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08696 
PMCID: PMC3951497
PMID: 20010809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):364-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08697. Epub 2009 Dec 13.

HnRNP proteins controlled by c-Myc deregulate pyruvate kinase mRNA splicing in
cancer.

David CJ(1), Chen M, Assanah M, Canoll P, Manley JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Columbia University, New York, New York
10027, USA.

When oxygen is abundant, quiescent cells efficiently extract energy from glucose 
primarily by oxidative phosphorylation, whereas under the same conditions tumour 
cells consume glucose more avidly, converting it to lactate. This long-observed
phenomenon is known as aerobic glycolysis, and is important for cell growth.
Because aerobic glycolysis is only useful to growing cells, it is tightly
regulated in a proliferation-linked manner. In mammals, this is partly achieved
through control of pyruvate kinase isoform expression. The embryonic pyruvate
kinase isoform, PKM2, is almost universally re-expressed in cancer, and promotes 
aerobic glycolysis, whereas the adult isoform, PKM1, promotes oxidative
phosphorylation. These two isoforms result from mutually exclusive alternative
splicing of the PKM pre-mRNA, reflecting inclusion of either exon 9 (PKM1) or
exon 10 (PKM2). Here we show that three heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein
(hnRNP) proteins, polypyrimidine tract binding protein (PTB, also known as
hnRNPI), hnRNPA1 and hnRNPA2, bind repressively to sequences flanking exon 9,
resulting in exon 10 inclusion. We also demonstrate that the oncogenic
transcription factor c-Myc upregulates transcription of PTB, hnRNPA1 and hnRNPA2,
ensuring a high PKM2/PKM1 ratio. Establishing a relevance to cancer, we show that
human gliomas overexpress c-Myc, PTB, hnRNPA1 and hnRNPA2 in a manner that
correlates with PKM2 expression. Our results thus define a pathway that regulates
an alternative splicing event required for tumour cell proliferation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08697 
PMCID: PMC2950088
PMID: 20010808  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):349-52. doi: 10.1038/nature08630. Epub 2009 Dec 9.

Phylogenies reveal new interpretation of speciation and the Red Queen.

Venditti C(1), Meade A, Pagel M.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Reading, Reading, Berkshire, RG6 
6BX, UK.

Comment on
    Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):306-7.

The Red Queen describes a view of nature in which species continually evolve but 
do not become better adapted. It is one of the more distinctive metaphors of
evolutionary biology, but no test of its claim that speciation occurs at a
constant rate has ever been made against competing models that can predict
virtually identical outcomes, nor has any mechanism been proposed that could
cause the constant-rate phenomenon. Here we use 101 phylogenies of animal, plant 
and fungal taxa to test the constant-rate claim against four competing models.
Phylogenetic branch lengths record the amount of time or evolutionary change
between successive events of speciation. The models predict the distribution of
these lengths by specifying how factors combine to bring about speciation, or by 
describing how rates of speciation vary throughout a tree. We find that the
hypotheses that speciation follows the accumulation of many small events that act
either multiplicatively or additively found support in 8% and none of the trees, 
respectively. A further 8% of trees hinted that the probability of speciation
changes according to the amount of divergence from the ancestral species, and 6% 
suggested speciation rates vary among taxa. By comparison, 78% of the trees fit
the simplest model in which new species emerge from single events, each rare but 
individually sufficient to cause speciation. This model predicts a constant rate 
of speciation, and provides a new interpretation of the Red Queen: the metaphor
of species losing a race against a deteriorating environment is replaced by a
view linking speciation to rare stochastic events that cause reproductive
isolation. Attempts to understand species-radiations or why some groups have more
or fewer species should look to the size of the catalogue of potential causes of 
speciation shared by a group of closely related organisms rather than to how
those causes combine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08630 
PMID: 20010607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):356-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08711.

Prejudice and truth about the effect of testosterone on human bargaining
behaviour.

Eisenegger C(1), Naef M, Snozzi R, Heinrichs M, Fehr E.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Empirical Research in Economics, Laboratory for Social and
Neural Systems Research, University of Zurich, 8006 Zurich, Switzerland.
eisenegger@iew.uzh.ch

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 24;485(7399):E4-5; discussion E5-6.

Both biosociological and psychological models, as well as animal research,
suggest that testosterone has a key role in social interactions. Evidence from
animal studies in rodents shows that testosterone causes aggressive behaviour
towards conspecifics. Folk wisdom generalizes and adapts these findings to
humans, suggesting that testosterone induces antisocial, egoistic, or even
aggressive human behaviours. However, many researchers have questioned this folk 
hypothesis, arguing that testosterone is primarily involved in status-related
behaviours in challenging social interactions, but causal evidence that
discriminates between these views is sparse. Here we show that the sublingual
administration of a single dose of testosterone in women causes a substantial
increase in fair bargaining behaviour, thereby reducing bargaining conflicts and 
increasing the efficiency of social interactions. However, subjects who believed 
that they received testosterone-regardless of whether they actually received it
or not-behaved much more unfairly than those who believed that they were treated 
with placebo. Thus, the folk hypothesis seems to generate a strong negative
association between subjects' beliefs and the fairness of their offers, even
though testosterone administration actually causes a substantial increase in the 
frequency of fair bargaining offers in our experiment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08711 
PMID: 19997098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):218-22. doi: 10.1038/nature08707.

Dominant control of the South Asian monsoon by orographic insulation versus
plateau heating.

Boos WR(1), Kuang Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences.

The Tibetan plateau, like any landmass, emits energy into the atmosphere in the
form of dry heat and water vapour, but its mean surface elevation is more than 5 
km above sea level. This elevation is widely held to cause the plateau to serve
as a heat source that drives the South Asian summer monsoon, potentially coupling
uplift of the plateau to climate changes on geologic timescales. Observations of 
the present climate, however, do not clearly establish the Tibetan plateau as the
dominant thermal forcing in the region: peak upper-tropospheric temperatures
during boreal summer are located over continental India, south of the plateau.
Here we show that, although Tibetan plateau heating locally enhances rainfall
along its southern edge in an atmospheric model, the large-scale South Asian
summer monsoon circulation is otherwise unaffected by removal of the plateau,
provided that the narrow orography of the Himalayas and adjacent mountain ranges 
is preserved. Additional observational and model results suggest that these
mountains produce a strong monsoon by insulating warm, moist air over continental
India from the cold and dry extratropics. These results call for both a
reinterpretation of how South Asian climate may have responded to orographic
uplift, and a re-evaluation of how this climate may respond to modified land
surface and radiative forcings in coming decades.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08707 
PMID: 20075917 


880. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):207-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08643.

A large coronal loop in the Algol system.

Peterson WM(1), Mutel RL, Güdel M, Goss WM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Iowa, Van Allen Hall, Iowa 
City, Iowa 52240, USA.

The close binary Algol system contains a radio-bright KIV subgiant star in a very
close (0.062 astronomical units) and rapid (2.86 day) orbit with a main sequence 
B8 star. Because the rotation periods of the two stars are tidally locked to the 
orbital period, the rapid rotation drives a magnetic dynamo. A large body of
evidence points to the existence of an extended, complex coronal magnetosphere
originating at the cooler K subgiant. The detailed morphology of the subgiant's
corona and its possible interaction with its companion are unknown, though theory
predicts that the coronal plasma should be confined in a magnetic loop structure,
as seen on the Sun. Here we report multi-epoch radio imaging of the Algol system,
in which we see a large, persistent coronal loop approximately one subgiant
diameter in height, whose base is straddling the subgiant and whose apex is
oriented towards the B8 star. This suggests that a persistent asymmetric magnetic
field structure is aligned between the two stars. The loop is larger than
anticipated theoretically, but the size may be the result of a magnetic
interaction between the two stars.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08643 
PMID: 20075916 


881. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):203-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08640.

Bulgeless dwarf galaxies and dark matter cores from supernova-driven outflows.

Governato F(1), Brook C, Mayer L, Brooks A, Rhee G, Wadsley J, Jonsson P, Willman
B, Stinson G, Quinn T, Madau P.

Author information: 
(1)Astronomy Department, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195,
USA.

For almost two decades the properties of 'dwarf' galaxies have challenged the
cold dark matter (CDM) model of galaxy formation. Most observed dwarf galaxies
consist of a rotating stellar disk embedded in a massive dark-matter halo with a 
near-constant-density core. Models based on the dominance of CDM, however,
invariably form galaxies with dense spheroidal stellar bulges and steep central
dark-matter profiles, because low-angular-momentum baryons and dark matter sink
to the centres of galaxies through accretion and repeated mergers. Processes that
decrease the central density of CDM halos have been identified, but have not yet 
reconciled theory with observations of present-day dwarfs. This failure is
potentially catastrophic for the CDM model, possibly requiring a different
dark-matter particle candidate. Here we report hydrodynamical simulations (in a
framework assuming the presence of CDM and a cosmological constant) in which the 
inhomogeneous interstellar medium is resolved. Strong outflows from supernovae
remove low-angular-momentum gas, which inhibits the formation of bulges and
decreases the dark-matter density to less than half of what it would otherwise be
within the central kiloparsec. The analogues of dwarf galaxies-bulgeless and with
shallow central dark-matter profiles-arise naturally in these simulations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08640 
PMID: 20075915 


882. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):171-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08634.

Main-group elements as transition metals.

Power PP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Davis, California 95616,
USA.

The last quarter of the twentieth century and the beginning decade of the
twenty-first witnessed spectacular discoveries in the chemistry of the heavier
main-group elements. The new compounds that were synthesized highlighted the
fundamental differences between their electronic properties and those of the
lighter elements to a degree that was not previously apparent. This has led to
new structural and bonding insights as well as a gradually increasing realization
that the chemistry of the heavier main-group elements more resembles that of
transition-metal complexes than that of their lighter main-group congeners. The
similarity is underlined by recent work, which has shown that many of the new
compounds react with small molecules such as H(2), NH(3), C(2)H(4) or CO under
mild conditions and display potential for applications in catalysis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08634 
PMID: 20075912 


883. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):135. doi: 10.1038/463135a.

Call for a bigger vision.

[No authors listed]

Science in Canada cannot realize its full potential without clear direction from 
government.

DOI: 10.1038/463135a 
PMID: 20075872  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):258-9.

From steel to science.

Smaglik P.

Pittsburgh's universities are helping the city to emerge from its Rust Belt roots
and forge a knowledge economy. Paul Smaglik reports.


PMID: 20088024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):250-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08671.

Structural basis for the photoconversion of a phytochrome to the activated Pfr
form.

Ulijasz AT(1), Cornilescu G, Cornilescu CC, Zhang J, Rivera M, Markley JL,
Vierstra RD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison,
Wisconsin 53706, USA.

Phytochromes are a collection of bilin-containing photoreceptors that regulate
numerous photoresponses in plants and microorganisms through their ability to
photointerconvert between a red-light-absorbing, ground state (Pr) and a
far-red-light-absorbing, photoactivated state (Pfr). Although the structures of
several phytochromes as Pr have been determined, little is known about the
structure of Pfr and how it initiates signalling. Here we describe the
three-dimensional solution structure of the bilin-binding domain as Pfr, using
the cyanobacterial phytochrome from Synechococcus OSB'. Contrary to predictions, 
light-induced rotation of the A pyrrole ring but not the D ring is the primary
motion of the chromophore during photoconversion. Subsequent rearrangements
within the protein then affect intradomain and interdomain contact sites within
the phytochrome dimer. On the basis of our models, we propose that phytochromes
act by propagating reversible light-driven conformational changes in the bilin to
altered contacts between the adjacent output domains, which in most phytochromes 
direct differential phosphotransfer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08671 
PMCID: PMC2807988
PMID: 20075921  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):245-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08669.

An allosteric mechanism of Rho-dependent transcription termination.

Epshtein V(1), Dutta D, Wade J, Nudler E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, New York University School of Medicine, New York, 
New York 10016, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):1006.

Rho is the essential RNA helicase that sets the borders between transcription
units and adjusts transcriptional yield to translational needs in bacteria.
Although Rho was the first termination factor to be discovered, the actual
mechanism by which it reaches and disrupts the elongation complex (EC) is
unknown. Here we show that the termination-committed Rho molecule associates with
RNA polymerase (RNAP) throughout the transcription cycle; that is, it does not
require the nascent transcript for initial binding. Moreover, the formation of
the RNAP-Rho complex is crucial for termination. We show further that
Rho-dependent termination is a two-step process that involves rapid EC
inactivation (trap) and a relatively slow dissociation. Inactivation is the
critical rate-limiting step that establishes the position of the termination
site. The trap mechanism depends on the allosterically induced rearrangement of
the RNAP catalytic centre by means of the evolutionarily conserved mobile
trigger-loop domain, which is also required for EC dissociation. The key
structural and functional similarities, which we found between Rho-dependent and 
intrinsic (Rho-independent) termination pathways, argue that the allosteric
mechanism of termination is general and likely to be preserved for all cellular
RNAPs throughout evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08669 
PMCID: PMC2929367
PMID: 20075920  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):237-40. doi: 10.1038/nature08674.

KAP1 controls endogenous retroviruses in embryonic stem cells.

Rowe HM(1), Jakobsson J, Mesnard D, Rougemont J, Reynard S, Aktas T, Maillard PV,
Layard-Liesching H, Verp S, Marquis J, Spitz F, Constam DB, Trono D.

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, 1015
Lausanne, Switzerland.

More than forty per cent of the mammalian genome is derived from retroelements,
of which about one-quarter are endogenous retroviruses (ERVs). Some are still
active, notably in mice the highly polymorphic early transposon (ETn)/MusD and
intracisternal A-type particles (IAP). ERVs are transcriptionally silenced during
early embryogenesis by histone and DNA methylation (and reviewed in ref. 7),
although the initiators of this process, which is essential to protect genome
integrity, remain largely unknown. KAP1 (KRAB-associated protein 1, also known as
tripartite motif-containing protein 28, TRIM28) represses genes by recruiting the
histone methyltransferase SETDB1, heterochromatin protein 1 (HP1) and the NuRD
histone deacetylase complex, but few of its physiological targets are known. Two 
lines of evidence suggest that KAP1-mediated repression could contribute to the
control of ERVs: first, KAP1 can trigger permanent gene silencing during early
embryogenesis, and second, a KAP1 complex silences the retrovirus murine
leukaemia virus in embryonic cells. Consistent with this hypothesis, here we show
that KAP1 deletion leads to a marked upregulation of a range of ERVs, in
particular IAP elements, in mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells and in early embryos.
We further demonstrate that KAP1 acts synergistically with DNA methylation to
silence IAP elements, and that it is enriched at the 5' untranslated region
(5'UTR) of IAP genomes, where KAP1 deletion leads to the loss of histone 3 lysine
9 trimethylation (H3K9me3), a hallmark of KAP1-mediated repression.
Correspondingly, IAP 5'UTR sequences can impose in cis KAP1-dependent repression 
on a heterologous promoter in ES cells. Our results establish that KAP1 controls 
endogenous retroelements during early embryonic development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08674 
PMID: 20075919  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):232-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08673.

Long-term potentiation depends on release of D-serine from astrocytes.

Henneberger C(1), Papouin T, Oliet SH, Rusakov DA.

Author information: 
(1)UCL Institute of Neurology, University College London, London WC1N 3BG, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):169-70.

Long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission provides an experimental
model for studying mechanisms of memory. The classical form of LTP relies on
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs), and it has been shown that astroglia can
regulate their activation through Ca(2+)-dependent release of the NMDAR
co-agonist D-serine. Release of D-serine from glia enables LTP in cultures and
explains a correlation between glial coverage of synapses and LTP in the
supraoptic nucleus. However, increases in Ca(2+) concentration in astroglia can
also release other signalling molecules, most prominently glutamate, ATP and
tumour necrosis factor-alpha, whereas neurons themselves can synthesize and
supply D-serine. Furthermore, loading an astrocyte with exogenous Ca(2+) buffers 
does not suppress LTP in hippocampal area CA1 (refs 14-16), and the physiological
relevance of experiments in cultures or strong exogenous stimuli applied to
astrocytes has been questioned. The involvement of glia in LTP induction
therefore remains controversial. Here we show that clamping internal Ca(2+) in
individual CA1 astrocytes blocks LTP induction at nearby excitatory synapses by
decreasing the occupancy of the NMDAR co-agonist sites. This LTP blockade can be 
reversed by exogenous D-serine or glycine, whereas depletion of D-serine or
disruption of exocytosis in an individual astrocyte blocks local LTP. We
therefore demonstrate that Ca(2+)-dependent release of D-serine from an astrocyte
controls NMDAR-dependent plasticity in many thousands of excitatory synapses
nearby.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08673 
PMCID: PMC2807667
PMID: 20075918  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):197-202. doi: 10.1038/nature08651.

Coupled chaperone action in folding and assembly of hexadecameric Rubisco.

Liu C(1), Young AL, Starling-Windhof A, Bracher A, Saschenbrecker S, Rao BV, Rao 
KV, Berninghausen O, Mielke T, Hartl FU, Beckmann R, Hayer-Hartl M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular Biochemistry, Max Planck Institute of Biochemistry, Am 
Klopferspitz 18, 82152 Martinsried, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):164-5.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2013 Oct;14(10):611.

Form I Rubisco (ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase), a complex of
eight large (RbcL) and eight small (RbcS) subunits, catalyses the fixation of
atmospheric CO(2) in photosynthesis. The limited catalytic efficiency of Rubisco 
has sparked extensive efforts to re-engineer the enzyme with the goal of
enhancing agricultural productivity. To facilitate such efforts we analysed the
formation of cyanobacterial form I Rubisco by in vitro reconstitution and
cryo-electron microscopy. We show that RbcL subunit folding by the GroEL/GroES
chaperonin is tightly coupled with assembly mediated by the chaperone RbcX(2).
RbcL monomers remain partially unstable and retain high affinity for GroEL until 
captured by RbcX(2). As revealed by the structure of a RbcL(8)-(RbcX(2))(8)
assembly intermediate, RbcX(2) acts as a molecular staple in stabilizing the RbcL
subunits as dimers and facilitates RbcL(8) core assembly. Finally, addition of
RbcS results in RbcX(2) release and holoenzyme formation. Specific assembly
chaperones may be required more generally in the formation of complex oligomeric 
structures when folding is closely coupled to assembly.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08651 
PMID: 20075914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):178-83. doi: 10.1038/nature08670.

Genome sequence of the palaeopolyploid soybean.

Schmutz J(1), Cannon SB, Schlueter J, Ma J, Mitros T, Nelson W, Hyten DL, Song Q,
Thelen JJ, Cheng J, Xu D, Hellsten U, May GD, Yu Y, Sakurai T, Umezawa T,
Bhattacharyya MK, Sandhu D, Valliyodan B, Lindquist E, Peto M, Grant D, Shu S,
Goodstein D, Barry K, Futrell-Griggs M, Abernathy B, Du J, Tian Z, Zhu L, Gill N,
Joshi T, Libault M, Sethuraman A, Zhang XC, Shinozaki K, Nguyen HT, Wing RA,
Cregan P, Specht J, Grimwood J, Rokhsar D, Stacey G, Shoemaker RC, Jackson SA.

Author information: 
(1)HudsonAlpha Genome Sequencing Center, 601 Genome Way, Huntsville, Alabama
35806, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 May 6;465(7294):120.

Soybean (Glycine max) is one of the most important crop plants for seed protein
and oil content, and for its capacity to fix atmospheric nitrogen through
symbioses with soil-borne microorganisms. We sequenced the 1.1-gigabase genome by
a whole-genome shotgun approach and integrated it with physical and high-density 
genetic maps to create a chromosome-scale draft sequence assembly. We predict
46,430 protein-coding genes, 70% more than Arabidopsis and similar to the poplar 
genome which, like soybean, is an ancient polyploid (palaeopolyploid). About 78% 
of the predicted genes occur in chromosome ends, which comprise less than
one-half of the genome but account for nearly all of the genetic recombination.
Genome duplications occurred at approximately 59 and 13 million years ago,
resulting in a highly duplicated genome with nearly 75% of the genes present in
multiple copies. The two duplication events were followed by gene diversification
and loss, and numerous chromosome rearrangements. An accurate soybean genome
sequence will facilitate the identification of the genetic basis of many soybean 
traits, and accelerate the creation of improved soybean varieties.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08670 
PMID: 20075913  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):135-6. doi: 10.1038/463135b.

Lessons from a pandemic.

[No authors listed]

It is time to assess what worked, and what didn't, in the global efforts to cope 
with swine flu.

DOI: 10.1038/463135b 
PMID: 20075871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):184-90. doi: 10.1038/nature08629. Epub 2009 Dec 16.

A small-cell lung cancer genome with complex signatures of tobacco exposure.

Pleasance ED(1), Stephens PJ, O'Meara S, McBride DJ, Meynert A, Jones D, Lin ML, 
Beare D, Lau KW, Greenman C, Varela I, Nik-Zainal S, Davies HR, Ordoñez GR, Mudie
LJ, Latimer C, Edkins S, Stebbings L, Chen L, Jia M, Leroy C, Marshall J, Menzies
A, Butler A, Teague JW, Mangion J, Sun YA, McLaughlin SF, Peckham HE, Tsung EF,
Costa GL, Lee CC, Minna JD, Gazdar A, Birney E, Rhodes MD, McKernan KJ, Stratton 
MR, Futreal PA, Campbell PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton CB10 1SA, UK.

Cancer is driven by mutation. Worldwide, tobacco smoking is the principal
lifestyle exposure that causes cancer, exerting carcinogenicity through >60
chemicals that bind and mutate DNA. Using massively parallel sequencing
technology, we sequenced a small-cell lung cancer cell line, NCI-H209, to explore
the mutational burden associated with tobacco smoking. A total of 22,910 somatic 
substitutions were identified, including 134 in coding exons. Multiple mutation
signatures testify to the cocktail of carcinogens in tobacco smoke and their
proclivities for particular bases and surrounding sequence context. Effects of
transcription-coupled repair and a second, more general, expression-linked repair
pathway were evident. We identified a tandem duplication that duplicates exons
3-8 of CHD7 in frame, and another two lines carrying PVT1-CHD7 fusion genes,
indicating that CHD7 may be recurrently rearranged in this disease. These
findings illustrate the potential for next-generation sequencing to provide
unprecedented insights into mutational processes, cellular repair pathways and
gene networks associated with cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08629 
PMCID: PMC2880489
PMID: 20016488  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):223-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08655. Epub 2009 Dec 16.

Coots use hatch order to learn to recognize and reject conspecific brood
parasitic chicks.

Shizuka D(1), Lyon BE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California,
Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA. shizuka@biology.ucsc.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):165-7.

Avian brood parasites and their hosts provide model systems for investigating
links between recognition, learning, and their fitness consequences. One major
evolutionary puzzle has continued to capture the attention of naturalists for
centuries: why do hosts of brood parasites generally fail to recognize parasitic 
offspring after they have hatched from the egg, even when the host and parasitic 
chicks differ to almost comic degrees? One prominent theory to explain this
pattern proposes that the costs of mistakenly learning to recognize the wrong
offspring make recognition maladaptive. Here we show that American coots, Fulica 
americana, can recognize and reject parasitic chicks in their brood by using
learned cues, despite the fact that the hosts and the brood parasites are of the 
same species. A series of chick cross-fostering experiments confirm that coots
use first-hatched chicks in a brood as referents to learn to recognize their own 
chicks and then discriminate against later-hatched parasitic chicks in the same
brood. When experimentally provided with the wrong reference chicks, coots can be
induced to discriminate against their own offspring, confirming that the learning
errors proposed by theory can exist. However, learning based on hatching order is
reliable in naturally parasitized coot nests because host eggs hatch predictably 
ahead of parasite eggs. Conversely, a lack of reliable information may help to
explain why the evolution of chick recognition is not more common in hosts of
most interspecific brood parasites.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08655 
PMID: 20016486  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):191-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08658. Epub 2009 Dec 16.

A comprehensive catalogue of somatic mutations from a human cancer genome.

Pleasance ED(1), Cheetham RK, Stephens PJ, McBride DJ, Humphray SJ, Greenman CD, 
Varela I, Lin ML, Ordóñez GR, Bignell GR, Ye K, Alipaz J, Bauer MJ, Beare D,
Butler A, Carter RJ, Chen L, Cox AJ, Edkins S, Kokko-Gonzales PI, Gormley NA,
Grocock RJ, Haudenschild CD, Hims MM, James T, Jia M, Kingsbury Z, Leroy C,
Marshall J, Menzies A, Mudie LJ, Ning Z, Royce T, Schulz-Trieglaff OB, Spiridou
A, Stebbings LA, Szajkowski L, Teague J, Williamson D, Chin L, Ross MT, Campbell 
PJ, Bentley DR, Futreal PA, Stratton MR.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton CB10 1SA, UK.

All cancers carry somatic mutations. A subset of these somatic alterations,
termed driver mutations, confer selective growth advantage and are implicated in 
cancer development, whereas the remainder are passengers. Here we have sequenced 
the genomes of a malignant melanoma and a lymphoblastoid cell line from the same 
person, providing the first comprehensive catalogue of somatic mutations from an 
individual cancer. The catalogue provides remarkable insights into the forces
that have shaped this cancer genome. The dominant mutational signature reflects
DNA damage due to ultraviolet light exposure, a known risk factor for malignant
melanoma, whereas the uneven distribution of mutations across the genome, with a 
lower prevalence in gene footprints, indicates that DNA repair has been
preferentially deployed towards transcribed regions. The results illustrate the
power of a cancer genome sequence to reveal traces of the DNA damage, repair,
mutation and selection processes that were operative years before the cancer
became symptomatic.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08658 
PMCID: PMC3145108
PMID: 20016485  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):214-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08705. Epub 2009 Dec 16.

Three-dimensional structure determination from a single view.

Raines KS(1), Salha S, Sandberg RL, Jiang H, Rodríguez JA, Fahimian BP, Kapteyn
HC, Du J, Miao J.

Author information: 
(1)[1] Department of Physics and Astronomy, [2] California NanoSystems Institute.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 1;480(7375):E2-3.
    Nature. 2011 Dec 1;480(7375):E1.

The ability to determine the structure of matter in three dimensions has
profoundly advanced our understanding of nature. Traditionally, the most widely
used schemes for three-dimensional (3D) structure determination of an object are 
implemented by acquiring multiple measurements over various sample orientations, 
as in the case of crystallography and tomography, or by scanning a series of thin
sections through the sample, as in confocal microscopy. Here we present a 3D
imaging modality, termed ankylography (derived from the Greek words ankylos
meaning 'curved' and graphein meaning 'writing'), which under certain
circumstances enables complete 3D structure determination from a single exposure 
using a monochromatic incident beam. We demonstrate that when the diffraction
pattern of a finite object is sampled at a sufficiently fine scale on the Ewald
sphere, the 3D structure of the object is in principle determined by the 2D
spherical pattern. We confirm the theoretical analysis by performing 3D numerical
reconstructions of a sodium silicate glass structure at 2 A resolution, and a
single poliovirus at 2-3 nm resolution, from 2D spherical diffraction patterns
alone. Using diffraction data from a soft X-ray laser, we also provide a
preliminary demonstration that ankylography is experimentally feasible by
obtaining a 3D image of a test object from a single 2D diffraction pattern. With 
further development, this approach of obtaining complete 3D structure information
from a single view could find broad applications in the physical and life
sciences.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08705 
PMID: 20016484  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):210-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08680. Epub 2009 Dec 9.

Time-reversal symmetry breaking and spontaneous Hall effect without magnetic
dipole order.

Machida Y(1), Nakatsuji S, Onoda S, Tayama T, Sakakibara T.

Author information: 
(1)[1] Institute for Solid State Physics, University of Tokyo, Kashiwa 277-8581, 
Japan [2] Present addresses: Department of Physics, Tokyo Institute of
Technology, Meguro 152-8551, Japan (Y.M.); Department of Physics, University of
Toyama, Toyama 930-8555, Japan (T.T.).

Spin liquids are magnetically frustrated systems, in which spins are prevented
from ordering or freezing, owing to quantum or thermal fluctuations among
degenerate states induced by the frustration. Chiral spin liquids are a
hypothetical class of spin liquids in which the time-reversal symmetry is
macroscopically broken in the absence of an applied magnetic field or any
magnetic dipole long-range order. Even though such chiral spin-liquid states were
proposed more than two decades ago, an experimental realization and observation
of such states has remained a challenge. One of the characteristic order
parameters in such systems is a macroscopic average of the scalar spin chirality,
a solid angle subtended by three nearby spins. In previous experimental reports, 
however, the spin chirality was only parasitic to the non-coplanar spin structure
associated with a magnetic dipole long-range order or induced by the applied
magnetic field, and thus the chiral spin-liquid state has never been found. Here,
we report empirical evidence that the time-reversal symmetry can be broken
spontaneously on a macroscopic scale in the absence of magnetic dipole long-range
order. In particular, we employ the anomalous Hall effect to directly probe the
broken time-reversal symmetry for the metallic frustrated magnet Pr(2)Ir(2)O(7). 
An onset of the Hall effect is observed at zero field in the absence of uniform
magnetization, within the experimental accuracy, suggesting an emergence of a
chiral spin liquid. The origin of this spontaneous Hall effect is ascribed to
chiral spin textures, which are inferred from the magnetic measurements
indicating the spin ice-rule formation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08680 
PMID: 20010605 


897. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):241-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08682. Epub 2009 Dec 9.

Stomagen positively regulates stomatal density in Arabidopsis.

Sugano SS(1), Shimada T, Imai Y, Okawa K, Tamai A, Mori M, Hara-Nishimura I.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Science, Kyoto University, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8502, Japan.

Stomata in the epidermal tissues of leaves are valves through which passes CO(2),
and as such they influence the global carbon cycle. The two-dimensional pattern
and density of stomata in the leaf epidermis are genetically and environmentally 
regulated to optimize gas exchange. Two putative intercellular signalling
factors, EPF1 and EPF2, function as negative regulators of stomatal development
in Arabidopsis, possibly by interacting with the receptor-like protein TMM. One
or more positive intercellular signalling factors are assumed to be involved in
stomatal development, but their identities are unknown. Here we show that a novel
secretory peptide, which we designate as stomagen, is a positive intercellular
signalling factor that is conserved among vascular plants. Stomagen is a
45-amino-rich peptide that is generated from a 102-amino-acid precursor protein
designated as STOMAGEN. Both an in planta analysis and a semi-in-vitro analysis
with recombinant and chemically synthesized stomagen peptides showed that
stomagen has stomata-inducing activity in a dose-dependent manner. A genetic
analysis showed that TMM is epistatic to STOMAGEN (At4g12970), suggesting that
stomatal development is finely regulated by competitive binding of positive and
negative regulators to the same receptor. Notably, STOMAGEN is expressed in inner
tissues (the mesophyll) of immature leaves but not in the epidermal tissues where
stomata develop. This study provides evidence of a mesophyll-derived positive
regulator of stomatal density. Our findings provide a conceptual advancement in
understanding stomatal development: inner photosynthetic tissues optimize their
function by regulating stomatal density in the epidermis for efficient uptake of 
CO(2).

DOI: 10.1038/nature08682 
PMID: 20010603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):227-31. doi: 10.1038/nature08678. Epub 2009 Dec 6.

Identification of an aggression-promoting pheromone and its receptor neurons in
Drosophila.

Wang L(1), Anderson DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology 216-76, California Institute of Technology, 1200 East
California Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91125, USA. lmwang@caltech.edu

Aggression is regulated by pheromones in many animal species. However, in no
system have aggression pheromones, their cognate receptors and corresponding
sensory neurons been identified. Here we show that 11-cis-vaccenyl acetate (cVA),
a male-specific volatile pheromone, robustly promotes male-male aggression in the
vinegar fly Drosophila melanogaster. The aggression-promoting effect of synthetic
cVA requires olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) expressing the receptor Or67d, as
well as the receptor itself. Activation of Or67d-expressing OSNs, either by
genetic manipulation of their excitability or by exposure to male pheromones in
the absence of other classes of OSNs, is sufficient to promote aggression. High
densities of male flies can promote aggression by the release of volatile cVA. In
turn, cVA-promoted aggression can promote male fly dispersal from a food
resource, in a manner dependent on Or67d-expressing OSNs. These data indicate
that cVA may mediate negative-feedback control of male population density,
through its effect on aggression. Identification of a pheromone-OSN pair
controlling aggression in a genetic organism opens the way to unravelling the
neurobiology of this evolutionarily conserved behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08678 
PMCID: PMC2999963
PMID: 19966787  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):113-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08647.

The Dbf4-Cdc7 kinase promotes S phase by alleviating an inhibitory activity in
Mcm4.

Sheu YJ(1), Stillman B.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, 1 Bungtown Road, Cold Spring Harbor, New York
11724, USA.

Eukaryotic DNA replication uses kinase regulatory pathways to facilitate
coordination with other processes during cell division cycles and response to
environmental cues. At least two cell cycle-regulated protein kinase systems, the
S-phase-specific cyclin-dependent protein kinases (S-CDKs) and the Dbf4-Cdc7
kinase (DDK, Dbf4-dependent protein kinase) are essential activators for
initiation of DNA replication. Although the essential mechanism of CDK activation
of DNA replication in Saccharomyces cerevisiae has been established, exactly how 
DDK acts has been unclear. Here we show that the amino terminal
serine/threonine-rich domain (NSD) of Mcm4 has both inhibitory and facilitating
roles in DNA replication control and that the sole essential function of DDK is
to relieve an inhibitory activity residing within the NSD. By combining an mcm4
mutant lacking the inhibitory activity with mutations that bypass the requirement
for CDKs for initiation of DNA replication, we show that DNA synthesis can occur 
in G1 phase when CDKs and DDK are limited. However, DDK is still required for
efficient S phase progression. In the absence of DDK, CDK phosphorylation at the 
distal part of the Mcm4 NSD becomes crucial. Moreover, DDK-null cells fail to
activate the intra-S-phase checkpoint in the presence of hydroxyurea-induced DNA 
damage and are unable to survive this challenge. Our studies establish that the
eukaryote-specific NSD of Mcm4 has evolved to integrate several protein kinase
regulatory signals for progression through S phase.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08647 
PMCID: PMC2805463
PMID: 20054399  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):108-12. doi: 10.1038/nature08650.

Ligand-specific regulation of the extracellular surface of a G-protein-coupled
receptor.

Bokoch MP(1), Zou Y, Rasmussen SG, Liu CW, Nygaard R, Rosenbaum DM, Fung JJ, Choi
HJ, Thian FS, Kobilka TS, Puglisi JD, Weis WI, Pardo L, Prosser RS, Mueller L,
Kobilka BK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are seven-transmembrane proteins that mediate
most cellular responses to hormones and neurotransmitters. They are the largest
group of therapeutic targets for a broad spectrum of diseases. Recent crystal
structures of GPCRs have revealed structural conservation extending from the
orthosteric ligand-binding site in the transmembrane core to the cytoplasmic
G-protein-coupling domains. In contrast, the extracellular surface (ECS) of GPCRs
is remarkably diverse and is therefore an ideal target for the discovery of
subtype-selective drugs. However, little is known about the functional role of
the ECS in receptor activation, or about conformational coupling of this surface 
to the native ligand-binding pocket. Here we use NMR spectroscopy to investigate 
ligand-specific conformational changes around a central structural feature in the
ECS of the beta(2) adrenergic receptor: a salt bridge linking extracellular loops
2 and 3. Small-molecule drugs that bind within the transmembrane core and exhibit
different efficacies towards G-protein activation (agonist, neutral antagonist
and inverse agonist) also stabilize distinct conformations of the ECS. We thereby
demonstrate conformational coupling between the ECS and the orthosteric binding
site, showing that drugs targeting this diverse surface could function as
allosteric modulators with high subtype selectivity. Moreover, these studies
provide a new insight into the dynamic behaviour of GPCRs not addressable by
static, inactive-state crystal structures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08650 
PMCID: PMC2805469
PMID: 20054398  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


901. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):98-102. doi: 10.1038/nature08652.

High-performance genetically targetable optical neural silencing by light-driven 
proton pumps.

Chow BY(1), Han X, Dobry AS, Qian X, Chuong AS, Li M, Henninger MA, Belfort GM,
Lin Y, Monahan PE, Boyden ES.

Author information: 
(1)The MIT Media Laboratory, Synthetic Neurobiology Group, and Department of
Biological Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA.

The ability to silence the activity of genetically specified neurons in a
temporally precise fashion would provide the opportunity to investigate the
causal role of specific cell classes in neural computations, behaviours and
pathologies. Here we show that members of the class of light-driven outward
proton pumps can mediate powerful, safe, multiple-colour silencing of neural
activity. The gene archaerhodopsin-3 (Arch) from Halorubrum sodomense enables
near-100% silencing of neurons in the awake brain when virally expressed in the
mouse cortex and illuminated with yellow light. Arch mediates currents of several
hundred picoamps at low light powers, and supports neural silencing currents
approaching 900 pA at light powers easily achievable in vivo. Furthermore, Arch
spontaneously recovers from light-dependent inactivation, unlike light-driven
chloride pumps that enter long-lasting inactive states in response to light.
These properties of Arch are appropriate to mediate the optical silencing of
significant brain volumes over behaviourally relevant timescales. Arch function
in neurons is well tolerated because pH excursions created by Arch illumination
are minimized by self-limiting mechanisms to levels comparable to those mediated 
by channelrhodopsins or natural spike firing. To highlight how proton pump
ecological and genomic diversity may support new innovation, we show that the
blue-green light-drivable proton pump from the fungus Leptosphaeria maculans
(Mac) can, when expressed in neurons, enable neural silencing by blue light, thus
enabling alongside other developed reagents the potential for independent
silencing of two neural populations by blue versus red light. Light-driven proton
pumps thus represent a high-performance and extremely versatile class of
'optogenetic' voltage and ion modulator, which will broadly enable new
neuroscientific, biological, neurological and psychiatric investigations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08652 
PMCID: PMC2939492
PMID: 20054397  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):88-92. doi: 10.1038/nature08638.

Chronic active B-cell-receptor signalling in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.

Davis RE(1), Ngo VN, Lenz G, Tolar P, Young RM, Romesser PB, Kohlhammer H, Lamy
L, Zhao H, Yang Y, Xu W, Shaffer AL, Wright G, Xiao W, Powell J, Jiang JK, Thomas
CJ, Rosenwald A, Ott G, Muller-Hermelink HK, Gascoyne RD, Connors JM, Johnson NA,
Rimsza LM, Campo E, Jaffe ES, Wilson WH, Delabie J, Smeland EB, Fisher RI,
Braziel RM, Tubbs RR, Cook JR, Weisenburger DD, Chan WC, Pierce SK, Staudt LM.

Author information: 
(1)Metabolism Branch, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

A role for B-cell-receptor (BCR) signalling in lymphomagenesis has been inferred 
by studying immunoglobulin genes in human lymphomas and by engineering mouse
models, but genetic and functional evidence for its oncogenic role in human
lymphomas is needed. Here we describe a form of 'chronic active' BCR signalling
that is required for cell survival in the activated B-cell-like (ABC) subtype of 
diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). The signalling adaptor CARD11 is required 
for constitutive NF-kappaB pathway activity and survival in ABC DLBCL. Roughly
10% of ABC DLBCLs have mutant CARD11 isoforms that activate NF-kappaB, but the
mechanism that engages wild-type CARD11 in other ABC DLBCLs was unknown. An RNA
interference genetic screen revealed that a BCR signalling component, Bruton's
tyrosine kinase, is essential for the survival of ABC DLBCLs with wild-type
CARD11. In addition, knockdown of proximal BCR subunits (IgM, Ig-kappa, CD79A and
CD79B) killed ABC DLBCLs with wild-type CARD11 but not other lymphomas. The BCRs 
in these ABC DLBCLs formed prominent clusters in the plasma membrane with low
diffusion, similarly to BCRs in antigen-stimulated normal B cells. Somatic
mutations affecting the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM)
signalling modules of CD79B and CD79A were detected frequently in ABC DLBCL
biopsy samples but rarely in other DLBCLs and never in Burkitt's lymphoma or
mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma. In 18% of ABC DLBCLs, one
functionally critical residue of CD79B, the first ITAM tyrosine, was mutated.
These mutations increased surface BCR expression and attenuated Lyn kinase, a
feedback inhibitor of BCR signalling. These findings establish chronic active BCR
signalling as a new pathogenetic mechanism in ABC DLBCL, suggesting several
therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08638 
PMCID: PMC2845535
PMID: 20054396  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):84-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08695.

Endogenous non-retroviral RNA virus elements in mammalian genomes.

Horie M(1), Honda T, Suzuki Y, Kobayashi Y, Daito T, Oshida T, Ikuta K, Jern P,
Gojobori T, Coffin JM, Tomonaga K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, Research Institute for Microbial Diseases (BIKEN),
Osaka University, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):39-40.

Retroviruses are the only group of viruses known to have left a fossil record, in
the form of endogenous proviruses, and approximately 8% of the human genome is
made up of these elements. Although many other viruses, including non-retroviral 
RNA viruses, are known to generate DNA forms of their own genomes during
replication, none has been found as DNA in the germline of animals. Bornaviruses,
a genus of non-segmented, negative-sense RNA virus, are unique among RNA viruses 
in that they establish persistent infection in the cell nucleus. Here we show
that elements homologous to the nucleoprotein (N) gene of bornavirus exist in the
genomes of several mammalian species, including humans, non-human primates,
rodents and elephants. These sequences have been designated endogenous Borna-like
N (EBLN) elements. Some of the primate EBLNs contain an intact open reading frame
(ORF) and are expressed as mRNA. Phylogenetic analyses showed that EBLNs seem to 
have been generated by different insertional events in each specific animal
family. Furthermore, the EBLN of a ground squirrel was formed by a recent
integration event, whereas those in primates must have been formed more than 40
million years ago. We also show that the N mRNA of a current mammalian
bornavirus, Borna disease virus (BDV), can form EBLN-like elements in the genomes
of persistently infected cultured cells. Our results provide the first evidence
for endogenization of non-retroviral virus-derived elements in mammalian genomes 
and give novel insights not only into generation of endogenous elements, but also
into a role of bornavirus as a source of genetic novelty in its host.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08695 
PMCID: PMC2818285
PMID: 20054395  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):80-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08687.

Anthropogenic carbon dioxide transport in the Southern Ocean driven by Ekman
flow.

Ito T(1), Woloszyn M, Mazloff M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Atmospheric Science, Colorado State University, 1371 Campus
Delivery, Fort Collins, Colorado 80523-1371, USA. ito@atmos.colostate.edu

The Southern Ocean, with its large surface area and vigorous overturning
circulation, is potentially a substantial sink of anthropogenic CO(2) (refs 1-4).
Despite its importance, the mechanism and pathways of anthropogenic CO(2) uptake 
and transport are poorly understood. Regulation of the Southern Ocean carbon sink
by the wind-driven Ekman flow, mesoscale eddies and their interaction is under
debate. Here we use a high-resolution ocean circulation and carbon cycle model to
address the mechanisms controlling the Southern Ocean sink of anthropogenic
CO(2). The focus of our study is on the intra-annual variability in anthropogenic
CO(2) over a two-year time period. We show that the pattern of carbon uptake is
correlated with the oceanic vertical exchange. Zonally integrated carbon uptake
peaks at the Antarctic polar front. The carbon is then advected away from the
uptake regions by the circulation of the Southern Ocean, which is controlled by
the interplay among Ekman flow, ocean eddies and subduction of water masses.
Although lateral carbon fluxes are locally dominated by the imprint of mesoscale 
eddies, the Ekman transport is the primary mechanism for the zonally integrated, 
cross-frontal transport of anthropogenic CO(2). Intra-annual variability of the
cross-frontal transport is dominated by the Ekman flow with little compensation
from eddies. A budget analysis in the density coordinate highlights the
importance of wind-driven transport across the polar front and subduction at the 
subtropical front. Our results suggest intimate connections between oceanic
carbon uptake and climate variability through the temporal variability of Ekman
transport.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08687 
PMID: 20054394  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):76-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08676.

Slip-stick and the evolution of frictional strength.

Ben-David O(1), Rubinstein SM, Fineberg J.

Author information: 
(1)The Racah Institute of Physics, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Givat Ram,
Jerusalem 91904, Israel.

The evolution of frictional strength has great fundamental and practical
importance. Applications range from earthquake dynamics to hard-drive read/write 
cycles. Frictional strength is governed by the resistance to shear of the large
ensemble of discrete contacts that forms the interface that separates two sliding
bodies. An interface's overall strength is determined by both the real contact
area and the contacts' shear strength. Whereas the average motion of large,
slowly sliding bodies is well-described by empirical friction laws, interface
strength is a dynamic entity that is inherently related to both fast processes
such as detachment/re-attachment and the slow process of contact area
rejuvenation. Here we show how frictional strength evolves from extremely short
to long timescales, by continuous measurements of the concurrent local evolution 
of the real contact area and the corresponding interface motion (slip) from the
first microseconds when contact detachment occurs to large (100-second)
timescales. We identify four distinct and inter-related phases of evolution.
First, all of the local contact area reduction occurs within a few microseconds, 
on the passage of a crack-like front. This is followed by the onset of rapid slip
over a characteristic time, the value of which suggests a fracture-induced
reduction of contact strength before any slip occurs. This rapid slip phase
culminates with a sharp transition to slip at velocities an order of magnitude
slower. At slip arrest, 'ageing' immediately commences as contact area increases 
on a characteristic timescale determined by the system's local memory of its
effective contact time before slip arrest. We show how the singular logarithmic
behaviour generally associated with ageing is cut off at short times. These
results provide a comprehensive picture of how frictional strength evolves from
the short times and rapid slip velocities at the onset of motion to ageing at the
long times following slip arrest.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08676 
PMID: 20054393 


906. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):68-71. doi: 10.1038/nature08688.

Quantum simulation of the Dirac equation.

Gerritsma R(1), Kirchmair G, Zähringer F, Solano E, Blatt R, Roos CF.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Quantenoptik und Quanteninformation, Osterreichische Akademie der
Wissenschaften, Otto-Hittmair-Platz 1, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria.

The Dirac equation successfully merges quantum mechanics with special relativity.
It provides a natural description of the electron spin, predicts the existence of
antimatter and is able to reproduce accurately the spectrum of the hydrogen atom.
The realm of the Dirac equation-relativistic quantum mechanics-is considered to
be the natural transition to quantum field theory. However, the Dirac equation
also predicts some peculiar effects, such as Klein's paradox and
'Zitterbewegung', an unexpected quivering motion of a free relativistic quantum
particle. These and other predicted phenomena are key fundamental examples for
understanding relativistic quantum effects, but are difficult to observe in real 
particles. In recent years, there has been increased interest in simulations of
relativistic quantum effects using different physical set-ups, in which parameter
tunability allows access to different physical regimes. Here we perform a
proof-of-principle quantum simulation of the one-dimensional Dirac equation using
a single trapped ion set to behave as a free relativistic quantum particle. We
measure the particle position as a function of time and study Zitterbewegung for 
different initial superpositions of positive- and negative-energy spinor states, 
as well as the crossover from relativistic to non-relativistic dynamics. The high
level of control of trapped-ion experimental parameters makes it possible to
simulate textbook examples of relativistic quantum physics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08688 
PMID: 20054392 


907. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):65-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08635.

A lower limit of 50 microgauss for the magnetic field near the Galactic Centre.

Crocker RM(1), Jones DI, Melia F, Ott J, Protheroe RJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physics, Monash University, Victoria 3110, Australia.
Roland.Crocker@mpi-hd.mpg.de

The amplitude of the magnetic field near the Galactic Centre has been uncertain
by two orders of magnitude for several decades. On a scale of approximately 100
parsecs (pc), fields of approximately 1,000 microgauss (microG; refs 1-3) have
been reported, implying a magnetic energy density more than 10,000 times stronger
than typical for the Galaxy. Alternatively, the assumption of pressure
equilibrium between the various phases of the Galactic Centre interstellar medium
(including turbulent molecular gas, the contested 'very hot' plasma, and the
magnetic field) suggests fields of approximately 100 microG over approximately
400 pc size scales. Finally, assuming equipartition, fields of only approximately
6 microG have been inferred from radio observations for 400 pc scales. Here we
report a compilation of previous data that reveals a downward break in the
region's non-thermal radio spectrum (attributable to a transition from
bremsstrahlung to synchrotron cooling of the in situ cosmic-ray electron
population). We show that the spectral break requires that the Galactic Centre
field be at least approximately 50 microG on 400 pc scales, lest the
synchrotron-emitting electrons produce too much gamma-ray emission, given other
existing constraints. Other considerations support a field of 100 microG,
implying that over 10% of the Galaxy's magnetic energy is contained in only less 
than or approximately 0.05% of its volume.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08635 
PMID: 20054391 


908. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):61-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08642.

Sub-luminous type Ia supernovae from the mergers of equal-mass white dwarfs with 
mass approximately 0.9M[symbol: see text].

Pakmor R(1), Kromer M, Röpke FK, Sim SA, Ruiter AJ, Hillebrandt W.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Astrophysik, Karl-Schwarzschild Strasse 1, 85748
Garching, Germany. rpakmor@mpa-garching.mpg.de

Type Ia supernovae are thought to result from thermonuclear explosions of
carbon-oxygen white dwarf stars. Existing models generally explain the observed
properties, with the exception of the sub-luminous 1991bg-like supernovae. It has
long been suspected that the merger of two white dwarfs could give rise to a type
Ia event, but hitherto simulations have failed to produce an explosion. Here we
report a simulation of the merger of two equal-mass white dwarfs that leads to a 
sub-luminous explosion, although at the expense of requiring a single
common-envelope phase, and component masses of approximately 0.9M[symbol: see
text]. The light curve is too broad, but the synthesized spectra, red colour and 
low expansion velocities are all close to what is observed for sub-luminous
1991bg-like events. Although the mass ratios can be slightly less than one and
still produce a sub-luminous event, the masses have to be in the range
0.83M[symbol: see text] to 0.9M[symbol: see text].

DOI: 10.1038/nature08642 
PMID: 20054390 


909. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):54-60. doi: 10.1038/nature08659.

Ubiquitin-like small archaeal modifier proteins (SAMPs) in Haloferax volcanii.

Humbard MA(1), Miranda HV, Lim JM, Krause DJ, Pritz JR, Zhou G, Chen S, Wells L, 
Maupin-Furlow JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Cell Science, University of Florida,
Gainesville, Florida 32611, USA.

Archaea, one of three major evolutionary lineages of life, encode proteasomes
highly related to those of eukaryotes. In contrast, archaeal ubiquitin-like
proteins are less conserved and not known to function in protein conjugation.
This has complicated our understanding of the origins of ubiquitination and its
connection to proteasomes. Here we report two small archaeal modifier proteins,
SAMP1 and SAMP2, with a beta-grasp fold and carboxy-terminal diglycine motif
similar to ubiquitin, that form protein conjugates in the archaeon Haloferax
volcanii. The levels of SAMP-conjugates were altered by nitrogen-limitation and
proteasomal gene knockout and spanned various functions including components of
the Urm1 pathway. LC-MS/MS-based collision-induced dissociation demonstrated
isopeptide bonds between the C-terminal glycine of SAMP2 and the epsilon-amino
group of lysines from a number of protein targets and Lys 58 of SAMP2 itself,
revealing poly-SAMP chains. The widespread distribution and diversity of pathways
modified by SAMPylation suggest that this type of protein conjugation is central 
to the archaeal lineage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08659 
PMCID: PMC2872088
PMID: 20054389  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):43-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08623.

Tetrapod trackways from the early Middle Devonian period of Poland.

Niedźwiedzki G(1), Szrek P, Narkiewicz K, Narkiewicz M, Ahlberg PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paleobiology and Evolution, Faculty of Biology, Warsaw
University, 2S. Banacha Street, 02-097 Warsaw, Poland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):40-1.

The fossil record of the earliest tetrapods (vertebrates with limbs rather than
paired fins) consists of body fossils and trackways. The earliest body fossils of
tetrapods date to the Late Devonian period (late Frasnian stage) and are preceded
by transitional elpistostegids such as Panderichthys and Tiktaalik that still
have paired fins. Claims of tetrapod trackways predating these body fossils have 
remained controversial with regard to both age and the identity of the track
makers. Here we present well-preserved and securely dated tetrapod tracks from
Polish marine tidal flat sediments of early Middle Devonian (Eifelian stage) age 
that are approximately 18 million years older than the earliest tetrapod body
fossils and 10 million years earlier than the oldest elpistostegids. They force a
radical reassessment of the timing, ecology and environmental setting of the
fish-tetrapod transition, as well as the completeness of the body fossil record.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08623 
PMID: 20054388  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):E1; discussion E2. doi: 10.1038/nature08665.

Close supermassive binary black holes.

Gaskell CM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Astronomy Department, University of Texas, Austin, Texas 78712, USA.
gaskell@astro.as.utexas.edu.

Comment on
    Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):53-5.

It has been proposed that when the peaks of the broad emission lines in active
galactic nuclei (AGNs) are significantly blueshifted or redshifted from the
systemic velocity of the host galaxy, this could be a consequence of orbital
motion of a supermassive black-hole binary (SMBB). The AGN J1536+0441 ( = SDSS
J153636.22+044127.0) has recently been proposed as an example of this phenomenon.
It is proposed here instead that J1536+0441 is an example of line emission from a
disk. If this is correct, the lack of clear optical spectral evidence for close
SMBBs is significant, and argues either that the merging of close SMBBs is much
faster than has generally been hitherto thought, or if the approach is slow, that
when the separation of the binary is comparable to the size of the torus and
broad-line region, the feeding of the black holes is disrupted.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08665 
PMID: 20054358 


912. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):103-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08646. Epub 2009 Dec 20.

Deubiquitinase USP9X stabilizes MCL1 and promotes tumour cell survival.

Schwickart M(1), Huang X, Lill JR, Liu J, Ferrando R, French DM, Maecker H,
O'Rourke K, Bazan F, Eastham-Anderson J, Yue P, Dornan D, Huang DC, Dixit VM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiological Chemistry, Genentech, Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San
Francisco, California 94080, USA.

MCL1 is essential for the survival of stem and progenitor cells of multiple
lineages, and is unique among pro-survival BCL2 family members in that it is
rapidly turned over through the action of ubiquitin ligases. B- and mantle-cell
lymphomas, chronic myeloid leukaemia, and multiple myeloma, however, express
abnormally high levels of MCL1, contributing to chemoresistance and disease
relapse. The mechanism of MCL1 overexpression in cancer is not well understood.
Here we show that the deubiquitinase USP9X stabilizes MCL1 and thereby promotes
cell survival. USP9X binds MCL1 and removes the Lys 48-linked polyubiquitin
chains that normally mark MCL1 for proteasomal degradation. Increased USP9X
expression correlates with increased MCL1 protein in human follicular lymphomas
and diffuse large B-cell lymphomas. Moreover, patients with multiple myeloma
overexpressing USP9X have a poor prognosis. Knockdown of USP9X increases MCL1
polyubiquitination, which enhances MCL1 turnover and cell killing by the BH3
mimetic ABT-737. These results identify USP9X as a prognostic and therapeutic
target, and they show that deubiquitinases may stabilize labile oncoproteins in
human malignancies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08646 
PMID: 20023629  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):118-21. doi: 10.1038/nature08648. Epub 2009 Dec 20.

Crystal structure of DNA-PKcs reveals a large open-ring cradle comprised of HEAT 
repeats.

Sibanda BL(1), Chirgadze DY, Blundell TL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Cambridge, Old Addenbrooke's site,
80 Tennis Court Road, Cambridge CB2 1GA, UK. lynn@cryst.bioc.cam.ac.uk

Broken chromosomes arising from DNA double-strand breaks result from endogenous
events such as the production of reactive oxygen species during cellular
metabolism, as well as from exogenous sources such as ionizing radiation. Left
unrepaired or incorrectly repaired they can lead to genomic changes that may
result in cell death or cancer. DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK), a
holoenzyme that comprises the DNA-PK catalytic subunit (DNA-PKcs) and the
heterodimer Ku70/Ku80, has a major role in non-homologous end joining-the main
pathway in mammals used to repair double-strand breaks. DNA-PKcs is a
serine/threonine protein kinase comprising a single polypeptide chain of 4,128
amino acids and belonging to the phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase
(PI(3)K)-related protein family. DNA-PKcs is involved in the sensing and
transmission of DNA damage signals to proteins such as p53, setting off events
that lead to cell cycle arrest. It phosphorylates a wide range of substrates in
vitro, including Ku70/Ku80, which is translocated along DNA. Here we present the 
crystal structure of human DNA-PKcs at 6.6 A resolution, in which the overall
fold is clearly visible, to our knowledge, for the first time. The many
alpha-helical HEAT repeats (helix-turn-helix motifs) facilitate bending and allow
the polypeptide chain to fold into a hollow circular structure. The
carboxy-terminal kinase domain is located on top of this structure, and a small
HEAT repeat domain that probably binds DNA is inside. The structure provides a
flexible cradle to promote DNA double-strand-break repair.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08648 
PMCID: PMC2811870
PMID: 20023628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):93-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08644. Epub 2009 Dec 16.

Identification of sister chromatids by DNA template strand sequences.

Falconer E(1), Chavez EA, Henderson A, Poon SS, McKinney S, Brown L, Huntsman DG,
Lansdorp PM.

Author information: 
(1)Terry Fox Laboratory, B.C. Cancer Agency, Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 1L3,
Canada.

It is generally assumed that sister chromatids are genetically and functionally
identical and that segregation to daughter cells is a random process. However,
functional differences between sister chromatids regulate daughter cell fate in
yeast and sister chromatid segregation is not random in Escherichia coli.
Differentiated sister chromatids, coupled with non-random segregation, have been 
proposed to regulate cell fate during the development of multicellular organisms.
This hypothesis has not been tested because molecular features to reliably
distinguish between sister chromatids are not obvious. Here we show that parental
'Watson' and 'Crick' DNA template strands can be identified in sister chromatids 
of murine metaphase chromosomes using CO-FISH (chromosome orientation
fluorescence in situ hybridization) with unidirectional probes specific for
centromeric and telomeric repeats. All chromosomes were found to have a uniform
orientation with the 5' end of the short arm on the same strand as T-rich major
satellite repeats. The invariable orientation of repetitive DNA was used to
differentially label sister chromatids and directly study mitotic segregation
patterns in different cell types. Whereas sister chromatids appeared to be
randomly distributed between daughter cells in cultured lung fibroblasts and
embryonic stem cells, significant non-random sister chromatid segregation was
observed in a subset of colon crypt epithelial cells, including cells outside
positions reported for colon stem cells. Our results establish that DNA template 
sequences can be used to distinguish sister chromatids and follow their mitotic
segregation in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08644 
PMCID: PMC3757939
PMID: 20016487  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):49-53. doi: 10.1038/nature08637. Epub 2009 Dec 9.

Preventing the return of fear in humans using reconsolidation update mechanisms.

Schiller D(1), Monfils MH, Raio CM, Johnson DC, Ledoux JE, Phelps EA.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Science, New York University, New York, New York 10003, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):36-7.

Recent research on changing fears has examined targeting reconsolidation. During 
reconsolidation, stored information is rendered labile after being retrieved.
Pharmacological manipulations at this stage result in an inability to retrieve
the memories at later times, suggesting that they are erased or persistently
inhibited. Unfortunately, the use of these pharmacological manipulations in
humans can be problematic. Here we introduce a non-invasive technique to target
the reconsolidation of fear memories in humans. We provide evidence that old fear
memories can be updated with non-fearful information provided during the
reconsolidation window. As a consequence, fear responses are no longer expressed,
an effect that lasted at least a year and was selective only to reactivated
memories without affecting others. These findings demonstrate the adaptive role
of reconsolidation as a window of opportunity to rewrite emotional memories, and 
suggest a non-invasive technique that can be used safely in humans to prevent the
return of fear.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08637 
PMCID: PMC3640262
PMID: 20010606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):72-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08681. Epub 2009 Dec 9.

Preparation and detection of a mechanical resonator near the ground state of
motion.

Rocheleau T(1), Ndukum T, Macklin C, Hertzberg JB, Clerk AA, Schwab KC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA.

Cold, macroscopic mechanical systems are expected to behave contrary to our usual
classical understanding of reality; the most striking and counterintuitive
predictions involve the existence of states in which the mechanical system is
located in two places simultaneously. Various schemes have been proposed to
generate and detect such states, and all require starting from mechanical states 
that are close to the lowest energy eigenstate, the mechanical ground state. Here
we report the cooling of the motion of a radio-frequency nanomechanical resonator
by parametric coupling to a driven, microwave-frequency superconducting
resonator. Starting from a thermal occupation of 480 quanta, we have observed
occupation factors as low as 3.8 +/- 1.3 and expect the mechanical resonator to
be found with probability 0.21 in the quantum ground state of motion. Further
cooling is limited by random excitation of the microwave resonator and heating of
the dissipative mechanical bath. This level of cooling is expected to make
possible a series of fundamental quantum mechanical observations including direct
measurement of the Heisenberg uncertainty principle and quantum entanglement with
qubits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08681 
PMID: 20010604 

